i really like reading books. i do not do it often though. it mostly happens in
batches where i read many books over a few days when i have a few days of
calmness available around me. these days i usually read on kindle. it is very
convenient, light and there is the benefit that i do not need to physically
store the books. i do not like the idea of having a bookcase of the all the
books i ever read: it takes space, maintenance (ugh, i hate cleaning) and i do
not really want others see what i read. having said all that i do occassionally
run across a physical book. usually someone loans one to me, or i just pick one
up randomly when i am at a place which has books and i have time. my problem is
that the book usability is quite bad due to the way the pages are bound
together!

for instance i cannot just open the typical book in the middle and put it onto
the desk and read it from there. it would just close itself like a spring. i
have to keep holding the pages to keep the book from closing. if i want to hold
the book in air, i often need two hands. for one hand holding, i have to roll
over one side of the book. reading the rolled side is quite annoying if even
possible. it is also very easy to break the binding. once i do that, the book
becomes more brittle, the individual papers might fall out much easier. also i
have to hold the book slightly differently depending i am reading the beginning,
the middle or the end of it.

what annoys me the most is that all those problems go away with coil or spiral
binding. one downside i can think of is that maybe books do not stack well if
bound that way. that is however not a problem for me because i do not care about
how nice a books look when stacked but about its content and ease of consuming
that content. all my notebooks are coil bound and they are convenient to use.
why is it then that most modern books are still bound with that annoying method?
i tried searching the web for an explanation and i could not find any. my only
guess is that people are so used to this horribleness that they do not even
realize things could be better. this is so annoying that if i wanted a printed
version of a book, i would try to get the ebook version, print that and coil
bind it myself. why is this so hard to do in the printing press in the first
place?

the other downside i can think of is that this way it might be harder to search
for a specific book in a bookcase since the book might not have a side with a
title on it. i am not convinced that this is a problem though. i am pretty sure
you could slide a long piece of cardboard or a plastic marker into the coil that
contains the title when you look at it from side. think of this like sliding a
pen into the coil and clipping it to it. when reading the book you pull this
marker out. whenever you finished a reading session you slide the marker back
and put the book back onto the bookcase. next time you pick up the book, you can
read where you left off. you can easily clip other random stuff to the coil. in
fact this is pretty awesome!

i should totally start my own book printing business.
