i guess almost all bloggers write a meta post about blogging where they either
explain why they blog or why others should be blogging. well, better not to
stick out of the crowd.

sometimes a thought or idea gets into my mind and unless i talk or write about
it, it keeps pestering me. writing about my thoughts really helps me organize
them a little bit. it calms my mind. having them outside my brain means that i
do not need to worry about losing a thought so i can calmly forget about it. it
is important to have an audience though. without it i would not be motivated to
keep the sentences even remotely coherent. it forces me to think really hard on
how to express some of these pesky thoughts in somewhat sane way. but often i do
not really have an audience. or even if i did have one the thought is so long
that it would be rude to send someone an unsolicited wall of text. so i thought
i write to an imaginary audience, in a somewhat secret place on the internet
that nobody reads. the possibility that someone will read this forces me to
write in a somewhat clear way.

most of the stuff i write is just crappy ideas or silly thoughts. better out
than in as the saying goes, no need to take my writing seriously. i do not think
that on my deathbed i will be agonizing over the fact that i was stupid on the
internet. more likely scenario is that i did not dump everything from my brain,
i still feel like there is some unfinished business i have to do. dumping
everything here helps me achieve my little nirvana sooner. now all i need to do
is to gather the courage and start writing. i have more than enough silliness to
write about, i just get overly anxious what my non-existent audience will think
of me. not forcing myself to reserve time for this is not helping either.

so that is about me. why should others blog? i do not follow many blogs but i
would be super interested in reading blogs of some of the people around me i
personally know. i am very reluctant to initiate towards people but i could
learn more about the person through their words. i could learn how they think,
what do they think about the world, what do they do in general and so on. i will
see a personality behind the face. i am not interested in reshares or likes
though. that is very low quality signal about the person. i really wish for
short article format, not twitter sized thought bites. if people want to point
to an article, i would much prefer if they would rewrite articles in their own
words rather than linking to an existing article saying "hey follower, read
this". there are a lot of rotten links on the internet so such posts consisting
only of a link would be worthless after a while. the blogger's personality will
flow into the rewrite so even if something is not an original idea, i will still
see the issue from the blogger's point of view. it also demonstrates that the
blogger actually read the article not just blindly resharing something they have
seen on the internet.

i also prefer if bloggers did not have any tracking, commenting or other
popularity counting widgets on their blog. this is why it is better to run one's
own blog rather than relying on shared services like facebook and whatnot where
one cannot even turn off these features. the problem is that if the blog starts
to get popular the blogger will start to care about popularity. they will be
more likely to write posts that get the most attention rather than what they
actually think. they will either moderate themselves, become less radical, more
mainstream, more boring or they will swing into the opposite direction where
they will get super radical and all their posts will be about outrage. if one
does not have any analytics at all, they are less likely to fall into this trap.

a comment about publicly visible comments: it is very easy to get demotivated or
get argumentative when posting very controversial or unpopular thoughts and then
reading the comments. i think it is easier to open up if one does not need to
spend rest of their energy on arguing with others after posting something
personal. if a post generates significant response then i would rather see a
followup post summarizing the private response than wade through all the
comments. this really helps to keep the content of the blog linear. it should be
possible to read a blog just like a book. i think it is best to keep discussions
on sites that are specialized for this and as such have moderation and other
means of maintaining civility.
