<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang="en"><head>
<meta charset="utf-8">
<meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1">
<title>notech.ie</title>
</head><body>
<h1>notech.ie</h1>
<ul>
<li><a href="#timestamping">/timestamping</a> posts is not something i want to do.</li>
<li><a href="#space">/space</a> for doing fun stuff would be fun!</li>
<li><a href="#blogging">/blogging</a> is cool, more people should be doing it.</li>
<li><a href="#boy">/boy</a> is a short story about a lost boy.</li>
</ul>

<h2 id="timestamping">timestamping</h2>
<p>
i am somewhat on the fence with regards adding timestamps to my posts. i want my
posts to contain only the content and nothing else. i want my posts to stand on
their own with no regards to posting time. when i wrote a post is usually
irrelevant anyways. on the other hand it is nice to see a rough indication of
the age of the post. hah, this reminds me of some weirdness i used to see on
some blogger.com sites. the posts and comments would have a timestamp in the
month, day, hour:minute:second format. awesome. a timestamp accurate to the
second. the only part missing? the year. because obviously that was not as
important as the seconds. i actually seen this in a lot of such blogs. super
weird. fortunately i have not encountered this recently so i am assuming this
got fixed or i managed to avoid blogger.com blogs.
</p>

<p>
anyways, this leads me to the idea that perhaps just stamping the posts with the
year they were written would be useful. i write only a couple posts per year so
i think the year granularity is more than enough. but still, i do not want to
put this metadata spam into my post contents. i have decided to just put it onto
the /frontpage. so instead of:
</p>

<ul><li>
  /post3 baz
</li><li>
  /post2 bar
</li><li>
  /post1 foo
</li>
</ul>

<p>
i would have this:
</p>

<p>
2019 entries:
</p>

<ul><li>
  /post3 baz
</li>
</ul>

<p>
2018 entries:
</p>

<ul><li>
  /post2 bar
</li><li>
  /post1 foo
</li>
</ul>

<p>
looks a bit ugly but it does the job so i will go with it for now.
</p>

<h2 id="space">space</h2>
<p>
i like to daydream about stuff i would do in particular situations. that does
not mean that actually want to do said stuff though. i just want to play with
the thought. today&apos;s topic is what would i do if i owned a big, enclosed,
private, empty space in the middle of a city? something like a 20 person
conference room. an apartment with a huge living room but no kitchen or
bedrooms. this would be at a different place from what i call home. i could rent
it, sure. but that is boring. what would i do if i had to make use of it myself?
what events would i organize in it?
</p>

<p>
there are many crazy ideas to choose from! the first idea that pops into my mind
is to create a place for videogame lan parties. i do not like the modern,
isolating online gameplay but lan parties can be pretty fun because you know the
people you frag, you can see their face when you frag them. i could even install
a projector and play crew or bridge simulators like artemis. but maybe i would
restrict the games we can play to the ones that run on a raspberry pi. all the
gaming machines would be only raspberry pi machines. i guess not many people
would be interested in playing but the ones that would be interested are
probably somewhat similarly crazy as me so i would find it more fun this way.
</p>

<p>
it would be also fun to build something together with a small team (also only
working on raspberry pies just for the sake of it). we could gather every now
and then and build random game or website in a hackathlon style. the projects
could be about reimplementing modern tools and games to be super efficient so
that they are so fast that you could use them on a raspberry pies.
</p>

<p>
hmm, let me go full crazy mode while at this. as i hinted in a previous post i
have some issues around sexual expression, intimacy and so on. although i keep
searching for it, i cannot find events in this area that would spike my
interest. maybe i could start organizing events in this space. i have bunch of
ideas. i do not necessarily like them all the same but i would totally try some
of them.
</p>

<p>
my first idea would be to create a nude gym. is it not the case that the ancient
greeks used to train and compete completely nude? there is some sort of magic to
this. in my fantasy these events have a relatively stable set of people rather
than different set of strangers showing up in every session. i think nudity
boosts the intimacy between people which deepens friendships and respect between
ourselves. being in a friendly and respectful environment can be very motivating
in achieving our goals. also i just like to look at naked bodies, especially if
they are well and fit. if the cost of this is that i have to train next to them
then i think that is a cost i can gladly pay. by myself i have zero motivation
to do any physical exercises.
</p>

<p>
my next crazy idea is a &quot;grooming exchange&quot;. i like to be clean and shaved most
of the time. but shaving is such a boring activity. what if i had to shave other
people and other people would shave me? i do not have problems with seeing or
touching bare bodies. i think doing such things together would be quite fun.
people can chat and bond while shaving or whatever special grooming the other
person requires. and i would even feel some sense of accomplishment that i
managed to make someone else&apos;s life a little bit easier.
</p>

<p>
i feel that there is a lot of shame in people around their bodies. they feel
that it is something to be ashamed of, something to hide. i think that is
nonsense and in fact i swing way too much into the other direction: the bodies
should be actively shared and exhibited. so my next idea is about trying to
reduce the shame around nudity and help with the body acceptance. this would be
a group activity. each participant goes in front of the group and completely
disrobes. then each audience member describes the person&apos;s body in a very
neutral and objective manner. the point of the exercise is to disassociate
ourselves with our body features and body flaws. it does not matter how our body
looks like. having others objectify our body helps us treat our body as a tool
to for achieving our goals rather than an end in itself. hmm. i am not entirely
sure about this one. it might be a useless exercise. but i think it would be
still interesting to give this idea a try.
</p>

<p>
or how about a masturbation club? it is pretty clear to me that there is a lot
of private masturbation going on in a lot of folks lives. but why does this have
to be such a private thing? what is it about it that makes it so disgusting that
we do not do it together? i think once we accept our bodies, our feelings and
the fact that we are not all that different from each other, this activity can
become an okay thing to do together. sure, the first few sessions would be
totally weird but once the initial shock wears off, it becomes a normal thing.
there are several ways to do this, i think it really depends on the folks
involved how they want to do it. the participants just can sit in a circle and
have a go at it. maybe they want to watch some videos on a phone or laptop
during session, that is okay. maybe they just want to watch others, that is okay
too. the other benefit of doing this regularly is that this can defuse the
obsessiveness of this act. one of the reasons for all the uncontrolled
masturbation is that sexual gratification is pretty much random: you might or
might not get some gratification based on other people&apos;s mood and your luck.
masturbation is just a coping mechanism against this randomness. i think if i
can get gratification regularly, the need for the constant gratification
disappears. if i can get myself to masturbate only with others, i cannot go
overboard with it since i would be limited to doing it only during the
encounters.
</p>

<p>
there is this thing called orgasmic meditation. i do not actually know much
about it so let me reinvent it from scratch. this activity is done in pairs. one
person lies down on the floor and the other person is stroking or otherwise
stimulating the first person&apos;s genitals in a very simplistic manner for a long
time without any changes in the stimulation pattern. i quite like this picture.
the stimulator&apos;s job is very simple: just keep doing what they are doing. there
is no performance expectation. the person on the floor can relax, daydream.
orgasm is not the point here. i can compare this against a massage. for instance
an ordinary back massage can get boring after a while, especially if it is the
same movement over and over again. massage requires constant adjustments,
changes in stimulation and so on so it is hard to get fully relax into it. and
even if one relaxes into it, they might fall asleep which somewhat suggests that
it was boring. but i can imagine it is somewhat different with genitals: in
general i think genital stimulation takes much much longer time to get to the
boring stage. more importantly genital stimulation sort of turns on one&apos;s mind
(it fills it with sexual thoughts) so they will not simply phase out but can
actually consciously enjoy the quiet time. i think doing this in a group is
beneficial because then because the people can swap partners all the time so the
novelty factor keeps people interested in the activity.
</p>

<p>
now let me fantasize about more sexually explicit activities. i do not have much
sexual experience outside my primary relationship but i am not particularly
seeking such activity either. that is mostly because of a combination of me
being lazy and shy. however i do yearn for some extra experience. so i am
thinking of a &quot;guided sexual encounter&quot;. this would be ideal for super shy,
non-communicative and submissive people like myself. in this activity you bring
or are matched with a sexual partner. each person writes some preferences,
no-nos and other notes onto a slice of paper and gives it to the guide. the
guide reads the preferences, thinks of a scenario and starts suggesting actions
to do for the participants. all the participants have to do is just simply
follow the instructions. instructions could be something along the lines of
touch here, massage that part, stroke faster and so on. there is no performance
anxiety since the participants can project that onto the guide. this activity
does not really require a group unless the activity guided is a group sex
itself. but still, i suspect doing stuff together, even if it is silly stuff,
can be a great fun.
</p>

<p>
in fact i could go further with this &quot;guided sexual encounter&quot; thing. how about
something like a drama or acting club? there would be a script where all members
have a role to play and they have to act out the story. i am envisioning acting
out favourite sex or porn scenes (mild ones that contain more interaction rather
than sex). the nice thing is that this allows anxious people acquire sexual
experiences in a very controlled manner. since there is a script, everyone knows
what will happen, there will not be surprises. one can mentally prepare well
ahead for the event. i am not fully sure how fun this would be or if there are
even scripts that make sense but i think there is some potential in this and
would be fun to explore it a bit.
</p>

<p>
and the most explicit fantasy is just having a sex club. i am not thinking of a
free for all group sex here but something more akin to the masturbation club.
couples or groups would come and just have their sex next to the other couples
or groups. or people can join just to watch and masturbate. at this stage this
might be a little bit intimidating even for me. but it does not sound a boring
activity.
</p>

<p>
so those would be the activities i would be thinking of organizing. couple of
notes. first, i would totally ban any food and drink consumption in this place.
food and drinks create a lot of waste, it is just simply less maintenance this
way. and besides, food and drinks is often just a passive, pure consumption
activity and i would rather avoid having such activities take place there. i
would especially prohibit alcohol and other drugs in this place. primarily
because i do not like alcohol, secondly i think it is healthier if we can blast
through our insecurities without the help of drugs. drugs can alter people&apos;s
personality, make them less controllable which is something i do not want to
deal with at my place either.
</p>

<p>
there is also a problem of where would i find people interested in such
activities. from all i can see is that most people find sex, nudity and intimacy
with strangers disgusting to even talk about. my craziest idea about this is to
create a special social network for this if one does not already exist. anyone
can join the network but in order to establish a connection with another person
(&quot;become friends&quot;) both people need to: a) have seen the other person&apos;s genitals
in person, and b) know what the other person&apos;s sexual fantasies are. the goal
for the individuals in the network would be to gather as many friends as
possible. i ask only for genitals rather than full nudity because the latter can
be hard to arrange while the former can be done in a form of a flash almost
anywhere. so people meaning to become friends can have a date, talk about sex,
flash to each other and then become friends on the network. what i want to
encourage in this network to make sexuality a normal thing to talk about. when
sex is a normal topic, people would be more comfortable telling what they like,
where their boundaries are, ask for advice and so on. i do not like the fact
that this topic feels very taboo in our society. i think being part of such a
community would then make it easier for me to find like minded people. by &quot;like
minded people&quot; i mean people who do not take life way too seriously, who are
non-monogamous, non-judging, open sexually and so on.
</p>

<p>
but obviously i am way too lazy to set up something like that. actually i would
much prefer if such clubs existed somewhere else where i could just go. although
i suspect i would be way too anxious to go to such place anyways. maybe when i
am old and retired, i might set up a club like this for the new generation. all
this remains a daydream for now.
</p>

<h2 id="blogging">blogging</h2>
<p>
i guess almost all bloggers write a meta post about blogging where they either
explain why they blog or why others should be blogging. well, better not to
stick out of the crowd.
</p>

<p>
sometimes a thought or idea gets into my mind and unless i talk or write about
it, it keeps pestering me. writing about my thoughts really helps me organize
them a little bit. it calms my mind. having them outside my brain means that i
do not need to worry about losing a thought so i can calmly forget about it. it
is important to have an audience though. without it i would not be motivated to
keep the sentences even remotely coherent. it forces me to think really hard on
how to express some of these pesky thoughts in somewhat sane way. but often i do
not really have an audience. or even if i did have one the thought is so long
that it would be rude to send someone an unsolicited wall of text. so i thought
i write to an imaginary audience, in a somewhat secret place on the internet
that nobody reads. the possibility that someone will read this forces me to
write in a somewhat clear way.
</p>

<p>
most of the stuff i write is just crappy ideas or silly thoughts. better out
than in as the saying goes, no need to take my writing seriously. i do not think
that on my deathbed i will be agonizing over the fact that i was stupid on the
internet. more likely scenario is that i did not dump everything from my brain,
i still feel like there is some unfinished business i have to do. dumping
everything here helps me achieve my little nirvana sooner. now all i need to do
is to gather the courage and start writing. i have more than enough silliness to
write about, i just get overly anxious what my non-existent audience will think
of me. not forcing myself to reserve time for this is not helping either.
</p>

<p>
so that is about me. why should others blog? i do not follow many blogs but i
would be super interested in reading blogs of some of the people around me i
personally know. i am very reluctant to initiate towards people but i could
learn more about the person through their words. i could learn how they think,
what do they think about the world, what do they do in general and so on. i will
see a personality behind the face. i am not interested in reshares or likes
though. that is very low quality signal about the person. i really wish for
short article format, not twitter sized thought bites. if people want to point
to an article, i would much prefer if they would rewrite articles in their own
words rather than linking to an existing article saying &quot;hey follower, read
this&quot;. there are a lot of rotten links on the internet so such posts consisting
only of a link would be worthless after a while. the blogger&apos;s personality will
flow into the rewrite so even if something is not an original idea, i will still
see the issue from the blogger&apos;s point of view. it also demonstrates that the
blogger actually read the article not just blindly resharing something they have
seen on the internet.
</p>

<p>
i also prefer if bloggers did not have any tracking, commenting or other
popularity counting widgets on their blog. this is why it is better to run one&apos;s
own blog rather than relying on shared services like facebook and whatnot where
one cannot even turn off these features. the problem is that if the blog starts
to get popular the blogger will start to care about popularity. they will be
more likely to write posts that get the most attention rather than what they
actually think. they will either moderate themselves, become less radical, more
mainstream, more boring or they will swing into the opposite direction where
they will get super radical and all their posts will be about outrage. if one
does not have any analytics at all, they are less likely to fall into this trap.
</p>

<p>
a comment about publicly visible comments: it is very easy to get demotivated or
get argumentative when posting very controversial or unpopular thoughts and then
reading the comments. i think it is easier to open up if one does not need to
spend rest of their energy on arguing with others after posting something
personal. if a post generates significant response then i would rather see a
followup post summarizing the private response than wade through all the
comments. this really helps to keep the content of the blog linear. it should be
possible to read a blog just like a book. i think it is best to keep discussions
on sites that are specialized for this and as such have moderation and other
means of maintaining civility.
</p>

<h2 id="boy">boy</h2>
<p>
boy&apos;s life started out quite simple. he lived in a small farming town, he was
surrounded by loving and supporting family. he spent most of his early days
either fooling around with neighbor&apos;s grandchildren outside whenever they were
around or just watching television. he liked watching sci-fi shows. as time
passed, he started nagging his parents for a computer because that is what he
has seen a lot in the tv shows. the parents were financially strapped so it took
them a while but they eventually found someone with a very old computer that
they wanted to throw out. boy got his first second hand computer. he fell in
love with it. he spent a lot of time with it. he was playing video games and
also learning programming in the hopes creating new games. as time went on he
grew apart from the neighbor&apos;s grandchildren since they started to spend less
and less time around. to understand the computers better boy started attending a
extracurricular computer class. he managed to find a friend there who also liked
to play video games. he befriended him and they visited each other often to play
games.
</p>

<p>
boy spent most of his teenage years in a single school. for 8 years he studied
with the same set of roughly 20 people. his classmates were nice people, they
liked each other. boy was friendly and a relatively good student. he liked
attending school. he liked its relatively rigid structure. he went in the
morning, attended the classes and then went home. he was a person of habits so
this worked well. nothing extraordinary happened in his life and he was happy
like that. he kept learning about computers privately. he wanted to become the
best programmer in the world. he thought that when he reaches the ultimate
computer mastery then fame and fortune will follow and everything will be okay.
he spent most of his afterschool time alone in his private room fooling around
with his computer.
</p>

<p>
he started noticing something during his late teenager years. more and more of
his classmates started hating school. some of them even skipped some of the
classes. some of them started going to pubs or just generally hang around after
the school. this was odd to him but he kept enjoying school and always went home
to his computer afterwards. on some occassions he went along with others into
pubs to see what was it all about. every time he did so he found himself in a
completely new environment with many strangers all talking. he did not like the
situation. all he could think of is going back to his more familiar places. the
topics people talked about were all sorts of things boy had no experience with.
music, dating, talking about other people. people drank alcohol and smoked
cigarettes. boy completely refused to do those things since he was afraid those
acts might interfere with his goal of infallible mental acuity needed for being
the best programmer. he completely avoided going to such places. he continued to
stay at home outside school.
</p>

<p>
during his teenager years he continued the playdates with his video game friend.
when they got a bit older, that friend introduced porn to boy. friend brought
some porn pictures on a floppy disk. boy did not understand it first. so friend
decided to do something that really surprised boy: he started masturbating in
front of him. he finished with an ejaculation which was also a completely new
thing he knew nothing about. friend then said that boy should try this too, it
will be fun. boy got curious and said sure and asked for instructions. there
they were, two adolescent boys, showing their penises to each other and trying
to masturbate. this was the first time boy remembers seeing another penis. he
might have glanced one or two in the past but this was the first time he had a
chance to actually take a more detailed look. boy had his own penis right there
to compare. it looked different. the foreskin on boy&apos;s penis did not cover his
glans. friend&apos;s foreskin could stretch long enough to cover that part. boy then
suddenly remembered that he had a surgery on his penis when he was a kid. his
parents were sometimes questioning him whether he can &quot;pull off his skin&quot; there
or not. he was quite shy person so when the parents insisted on showing it, he
just quickly showed that no, he cannot do that. they took him to a doctor who
signed him up for a surgery. boy did not really understand the whole thing that
is happening around him. he noticed that his penis looks a bit different after
the surgery but he did not think of it much and soon has forgotten about it. as
boy explains this to friend, boy gets a bit scared about it. did the doctors
actually mutilate his penis? friend immediately calms him down that this is
nothing to worry about, it is not that important part of the penis. then he
instructs boy that he should start stroking itself. boy does but nothing much
happens. he does not feel much. his friend plays videogames in the meantime. boy
keeps stroking penis as his friend recommends. nothing happened at that point so
after a while boy stopped and continued playing video games as if nothing
happened.
</p>

<p>
the penis difference kept bugging him. around that time his school got internet
access so he picked a quiet, private corner machine in the computer lab and
started researching penises. he learned that the operation he had was a
circumcision. he learned that while it is common in some cultures, it is not
common where he is coming from. the feeling he got is that circumcision is
associated with a stigma. the idea was that it was something that only an
unrespected ethnic group did to their babies so if people were to figure out
that he is circumcised then they would make fun out of him and would outcast
him. boy felt ashamed about this part of him. he felt that this is something he
must hide from others.
</p>

<p>
as most teenager boys, boy kept playing with his penis now and then. eventually
he managed to get his first ejaculation. then porn started getting more and more
interesting. friend brought even more porn for him. they even masturbated
together. porn was exciting for boy. after a while it was not really the sexual
act that he found most interesting in it. it was the fact that the people in
porn could completely disrobe in front of each other without any shame. it was
something he could not imagine comfortable doing himself due to his fear of
shame. being naked became a symbol of power for him. he wanted to be able to do
what people in porn do. being naked in front of others, being comfortable with
the raw human bodies and let him explore other people&apos;s bodies and let others
explore his. his porn taste was quite soft compared to what was available. all
he was interested in was casual nudity. his environment was quite conservative,
he did not experience much nudity which made him even more thirstier. in reality
he spent most of his time at home, he did not even have the chance to see others
in nude, and he did not have the chance to show off himself. though he did not
want to show off himself due to his inhibitions. he did not talk about this to
anyone. he managed to get through high school keeping all this to himself
without ever satisfying his curiosity.
</p>

<p>
years passed and boy finished his high school and off he went to a big city to
study computers in a prestigious university and to experience new adventures.
boy entered the real world. he did not really knew anyone in this new place. the
university classes were differently structured than his high school. no longer
was the case that a specific group is glued together for long hours and are
forced to work together every day. it was the wild west, everyone was for
themselves. the only thing that saved him was his interest in computer
competitions that he started doing in his high school times. he always done well
in them. he wanted to continue them in his university. the most prestigious
contest required teams with 3 members. he managed to find two other people for
this. during his high school years boy was active on a computer forum where he
liked to help people. by luck he managed to befriend one person there who
happened to start university at the same time as he was. he found another one by
looking at past high school competitions to see if there are high achievers in
his classes. boy then took the strength and asked one of them to join his team.
and so he found a few friends with whom he continued to attend competitions and
classes. later they even became roommates in the university&apos;s cheap dormitories.
</p>

<p>
the first three years of the university were quite busy, much busier than high
school so that kept boy quite occupied. since dormitories offered 4 person
rooms, he did not have much privacy either. he got through these years quite
quickly. his fantasies and inhibitions did not change. he was still super shy so
avoided anything that might expose him. much like in high school he also avoided
all social gatherings. he did not really miss them since he got plenty social
interactions from university and roommates. by the end of the third year he also
realized that becoming the best programmer was not realistic. in this place he
was not the brightest person anymore. this demotivated him. he started caring
about grades an his studies even less. he was still a good student but became a
lazy one. this and the unfulfilled fantasies made life look bleak to him.
</p>

<p>
since boy was already quite familiar with computers by the time he got to the
university, he managed to find a summer internship place in a nearby big,
multinational company. he worked there each summer since his first university
break. the company quite liked him so boy agreed to start working part time when
he started his fourth year at university. he got disillusioned with the
university so he liked this offer. at the same time that year he did not get a
place in the dormitory. he was now on his own. when he got the rejection letter
from the dormitory, he got a bit scared. he thought maybe he should rent a place
since he is now making money anyways. he started looking at rentals, picked the
first nearby, nice looking studio apartment and quickly moved in. he did not
give it much thought but it worked out well. he got a nice place. he liked it.
he was alone. he got back his privacy. he could do anything without anyone
looking. the shared living at a dormitory started bugging him anyways due to the
incompatible waking hours some roommates lived by.
</p>

<p>
his daily habit was to go to university for a few classes, then go to work for a
few hours and then go home. as weeks passed his disillusion with life and the
unfulfilled fantasies started growing. since boy was not spending much time in
university anymore, he grew apart from his friends. whenever he got home he
started wondering what is he doing with his life. interests in computers started
fading. there was not much point to it since he felt that there was not much
that he could contribute to the world anymore. there are smarter people around
for that and that is fine. most people around that time also had girlfriends,
were having fun and yet here he was as a virgin, he had not even seen real naked
woman in his life. he did not like the idea of visiting escorts because he was
still ashamed of himself. he felt like he could only share himself with a person
he knows well. he wanted a girlfriend, a person with whom he could share
anything, he wanted a family around himself. some days he went home, to his
lonely studio and he went straight to bed and cried himself into sleep because
nothing made sense for him, he could not see a future for himself.
</p>

<p>
boy was quite the lucky person. he had an easy life. parents provided well for
him. they did not give him everything he wanted but he got the things he really
wanted. he lucked out schools too. he was not bullied, he was around friendly
people. he lucked out exams too. he never studied very thoroughly but during
exams he always managed to randomly pick a topic he knew well so he managed to
slide through high schools and university exams without ever failing an exam.
his sheer luck also helped to meet the right person at the right time. on one
random day at his second university year he was sitting in the university&apos;s
lounge area with a concerned look on his face. a girl classmate was sitting next
to him. she keenly observed the distress and asked boy what is nagging him. boy
explained that last summer he worked in a summer internship and now he is
expected to file tax reports. boy had no idea what to do and he was not sure who
to ask about it. the girl in question, luckily for boy, happened to have an
accountant degree already. girl volunteered to help boy out. boy got super happy
about this. girl also happened to live in the same dormitory as boy. all he had
to do is go down a few floors in the evening, hand over the necessary documents
and let girl figure out the rest. life could not be easier. since she was the
first girl he talked to since he came to university, he wanted to have more
interactions with her. boy took a big breath and told girl that if she ever
needs help with her classes, he is happy to help out. it took a lot of courage
for boy to say this since he feared rejection. girl said thanks, she might get
back to boy later. she did so eventually. boy went over to her room quite a few
times to help with homework. girl had a boyfriend already in her hometown so boy
did not think of this relationship much. he really liked the fact that he can be
around a girl. boy also liked a roommate of girl&apos;s since she had qualities boy
could empathize with. roommate was smart, quiet, shy and friendly sounding. boy
felt the same about himself so she liked roommate. boy did not meet roommate a
lot though since girl and boy usually went to a more private areas to not
disturb the other two roommates and that they do not disturb them. boy was quite
shy in front of others anyways so he preferred it this way. not much more
happened between between girl and boy during those early years. boy happened to
hang around girl whenever she needed some help and girl helped out with boy&apos;s
tax documents once every year.
</p>

<p>
this relationship persisted even in the fourth academic year during boy&apos;s
depression. since neither of them were in dormitory anymore, they did their
occasional meetings in university lounges. girl was living at her relatives. boy
was reluctant to invite girl to his apartment to avoid looking like a creep who
is trying to hit on girls with boyfriends. eventually the topic came up, boy
told girl he is now renting a studio, and after another courage gathering
session he asked that she might as well come over there. to boy&apos;s surprise girl
agreed. girl started to come over to boy&apos;s place every few evening to study
together. some evenings she went home quite late. since she was already over to
boy&apos;s place and did not feel like going home, boy and girl watched movies
together or boy was showing off some magic tricks he learned on the internet.
what boy did not realize at that time is that girl dumped his boyfriend a few
months back. she even told this to boy once but it flew past boy&apos;s ears. one day
boy was chatting with girl on instant messaging. in that conversation girl got
tired and asked to have sex already. this request came when boy was deepest in
his depression. girl did not know about boy&apos;s depression. that day boy did not
cry. all he could think of is girl&apos;s message, seeing an actual woman naked, a
woman seeing him naked, and the fact that he can have his first sexual
experience. when boy got back his senses from the message, his body shame jumped
right back into his mind. after a few confirmational queries about his
understanding of the original message, he told girl he is circumcised and asked
how big of a deal that is. girl told him that such things do not bother her. she
then carefully asked if the circumcision was due to medical or other reasons.
this question did not bother boy, nor would any answer bother girl but it
confirmed for boy that indeed people in his area do associate circumcision with
ethnic rituals.
</p>

<p>
next time girl came over to boy&apos;s place, they did not bother with the studies.
they just lied on the bed. boy asked if he could kiss girl. she said yes. they
kissed. boy asked girl if she could take off her shirt. girl was a bit
uncomfortable with this but she agreed. boy asked the same about her bra. girl
was even more uncomfortable with this but eventually she agreed. boy could see
and touch real boobs the first time in his life. he was very happy. he enjoyed
the moment. boy asked about taking off the pants. girl said no. then they just
continued lying next to each other. boy was curious, he continued to pester
girl. he asked if he could at least touch her vulva. girl reluctantly agreed.
boy slided his hand into girl&apos;s pants. he touched it. he explored the vulva. it
was moist. he then pulled his hand back and put his fingers to his nose. he
examined it carefully. he even tasted it just to be sure since he was not sure
if opportunity will last or not. his hand then wandered back into the pants. boy
continued his blind vulva exploration. his curiosity grew. he asked again about
taking off the pants. girl agreed this time. boy did not hesitate, he took it
off. he liked what he was seeing. he examined his discovery from a very close
perspective. he immediately felt the need to use more senses for this
exploration like taste. he slowly started approached his target, and felt it all
around. he continued this exploration. girl was not objecting. after a few
minutes girl came. girl pushed away boy&apos;s face to stop boy&apos;s eagerness. she had
to rest. the fun was over for boy. hugging and silence followed the fun. girl
thanked boy and said that it is getting late, she should go home. she then
slowly got dressed and boy escorted her home.
</p>

<p>
boy was super happy. he now had a friend who fully trusted him with her body. he
felt like his fantasy came true. though it was not the full experience for him
since his penis had to remain at its dark place last time. however he knew that
the time is close. he will get to show off, use his penis and experience sex
too. boy walked around satisfied and excited about the future. he knew that more
adventure is around the corner. soon, girl was at boy&apos;s studio again. over
instant messaging boy convinced girl that they should have real sex next time.
he also asked girl to have low expectations, he never did such things, he will
probably utterly fail. this time both were ready to have sex. boy quickly
undressed girl. he played around her body again since boy&apos;s fascination with
bodies did not diminish. after a while boy also decided to undress, put on a
condom, and try to fumble his penis into girls vulva. he went in and minutes if
not seconds later he came. he had his first sex. he was a bit underwhelmed
though. partly because of his premature ejaculation, partly because of his
expectations. boy thought having his penis in a vulva will make the orgasm a
completely different, more extraordinary feeling. it was the same bodily feeling
as the old ejaculations he had. the difference this time was that he was with
another person. he still very much enjoyed it but in a different way. his penis,
his erect penis, the ejaculation to boy were increasingly more and more private
aspects of life. but here it was happening next to, inside another person&apos;s most
private body part. to boy this represented a very deep, trusting bond with the
other person. he did not care about the orgasm much, he cared about the intimacy
he managed experience that day. that is what he felt most satisfied about. sex
was a way to achieve that deep intimacy boy was longing for. hugging and
relaxation followed.
</p>

<p>
girl kept going to boy&apos;s place and they kept having sex in similar ways. boy
tried experimenting a little bit to see what differences are there to the
experience. boy was elated. after a short while he asked girl to have a shared
shower. boy wanted this so that he can show his body fully girl. so far girl did
not really see boy&apos;s body. while girl was lying on the bed, boy had to do
everything himself. he undressed himself, put his penis inside her, then later
cleaned up himself. during these acts girl did not stare at boy&apos;s crotch much.
he wanted to make himself easier to observe. they had their shower. boy proudly
showed presented himself to girl. girl was a bit shy but otherwise acted
completely casual. boy was completely mesmerized with girl&apos;s body. he could not
keep of his eyes of girl&apos;s body, he was mentally trying to crystallize the
experience into his memory. they showered together all right but to boy it did
not feel like girl is giving him as much attention as he is giving her. boy felt
the lack of interest but the possibility of being fearlessly naked and having
the possibility of freely explore girl&apos;s body overshadowed the lack of the
reciprocal feeling.
</p>

<p>
as boy got more experience in sex, his performance improved, sex was great.
everything worked like in the movies. girl continued to show generally less
lustful interest in boy&apos;s body. slowly boy understood that this was not due to
his body not being attractive but it was due to girl not as interested in nudity
itself. she had a different love language. boy did not feel fully satisfied. he
did not even fully stop with his porn addiction. his fantasies continued. he did
not hide this fact from girl. boy was super honest. girl did not really mind
that boy still looks at porn after boy fully explained how he thought. boy
really liked the fact that he can share any uncomfortable thoughts with girl and
that the girl accepts those without judgment. such unconditional acceptance was
part of his fantasy after all. even without the fully satisfied fantasies boy no
longer felt depressed. boy was happy. future was now full of possibilities.
</p>

<p>
girl started spending more and more time at boy&apos;s place. she even started
sleeping there overnight. boy liked girl and he liked that she spends so much
time with him. boy even fantasized growing old and having a family with girl.
after a while they wanted move together but girl did not really like boy&apos;s
studio because she did not like having everything in one big room. boy&apos;s rent
was quite high too. girl was thinking about renting a bigger and cheaper
apartment. meanwhile girl asked if her former roommate boy liked could sleep one
night there. roommate was also rejected from dormitory so she was sharing a flat
with 3 other girls. suddenly their landlords decided that they do not want to
rent their flat out anymore. she needed a new place quickly and she needed a
place to stay until she found a new place. boy immediately agreed. sleeping next
to two girls he really liked sounded like a dream coming true. boy had his
sleepover pajama party at its place. it was not terribly exciting since nothing
happened but the fact that both girl and roommate trusted him enough to sleep in
the same bed as him was a very comforting experience. girl slept in the middle
so there was no chance for funny business. this way girl did not really mind the
setup for a day. next day roommate explained that she needs to find a place not
only for herself but also for her sister so she was not sure what she is going
to do. boy, girl, and roommate knew each other for a while now and they liked
each other. girl proposed that maybe they should band together and rent a place
together. everybody agreed. girl and roommate hit the internets to find places
and started visiting apartments. boy did not really care much where he lived so
he let them do whatever they wanted. he had to go to university and then to work
anyways. the girls quickly found a nice 2 bedroom place and the next day all
four of them, sister included, visited and agreed to their new place where they
planned to spend most of their upcoming days.
</p>

<p>
the apartment was long and narrow. it had 4 rooms next to each other. bathroom,
bedroom 1, bedroom 2, kitchen. flatmate and sister lived in bedroom 1. in order
to get from bedroom 1 to kitchen, one had to go through bedroom 2. boy and girl
lived in bedroom 2. in order to go from bedroom 2 to bathroom, one had to go
through bedroom 1. unless one was alone, there was no real privacy for anyone.
girl&apos;s former roommate now became flatmate. boy did not really know flatmate&apos;s
sister until they actually moved in. he worried about this a bit. flatmate
previously explained sister is like her but younger so if he likes flatmate, he
will like sister too. this turned out to be true. boy noticed minor differences
though. sister was a bit less shy, more confident, she looked like she knew what
she wanted, like she had her whole life planned out. boy and sister liked each
other but boy liked flatmate better since he felt more commonality with her. boy
felt that flatmate is also a little bit lost and misunderstood in life so they
exchanged banter about who is more clueless in life.
</p>

<p>
everybody was happy with the arrangement, everybody liked each other. there were
no quarrels, group members did not annoy each other. nobody was the party type
person so everyone had sane waking hours. days, weeks, months passed. boy
continued to have great relationship with girl along with great sex life.
however boy still did not really feel that his fantasies were fully met. he was
still in his first love&apos;s high, he was happy enough so he did not mind that
much. he kept consuming porn to make up the void. as summer approached, the
outside temperature kept rising. the apartment was cheap because it lacked a few
things like air conditioning. it was quite hot inside as well. everyone was
sweating like pigs. boy started hanging out in his underwear. flatmate started
hanging out in a bikini swimming suit too. girl and sister did not really like
dressing down so they kept themselves fully clothed. they did not mind others
hanging out half naked. boy liked the lack of air conditioning because he liked
what he was seeing: a barely covered body of a close friend. boy was confused
though. he was looking at forbidden fruit. he did not know what to do so he just
discretely feasted his eyes on flatmate&apos;s body. as the rapport between boy and
flatmate grew, they became more playful with each other. boy&apos;s favorite game was
a tickling battle. boy could touch flatmate&apos;s in a playful matter. it was
exciting for him. at the same time this was not sexual so there was no anxiety
about doing the wrong thing in this play.
</p>

<p>
a year passed, boy liked his situation but he still felt unfulfilled. he wanted
more intimacy. he wanted to show and see more. boy learned from flatmate that
she did not really like to be nude. she does not have a problem with others
being naked around her although she is not that keen into being around naked
people. boy asked girl if he can hang around naked around flatmate. girl was not
comfortable with that so she said that he should not. boy respected her request.
this bugged boy. he really wanted to open up his body to flatmate. he wanted the
flatmate to validate his imperfect body. out of desperation he started to act in
a very creepish ways. he tried to sit in ways where his underwear does not fully
cover his crotch area, to make it look like his penis accidentally slipped out.
he wanted flatmate to catch his wardrobe malfunction. it was not terribly
effective. he was not even sure what he was trying to achieve. the tickling
battles and other games did continue, especially when only two of them were at
home. this started to became harder and harder for boy. boy was so obsessed
about flatmate that whenever they started playing, boy got an erection. boy was
super shy about this. he felt that he has to hide this from flatmate lest she
thinks boy wants sex and then she distances herself from boy. boy often had to
hold back in the games until his erection passed and only then continue playing.
hiding his thoughts, his body and his bodily reactions from flatmate felt wrong
but he did not want to make the whole thing weirder as it was already. he had it
way too good, did not want to risk pushing his relationship with flatmate
further.
</p>

<p>
boy finished his university studies at the end of his fifth university year. he
went working full time. his workplace insisted that he goes for a 3 month
training at a very far away place, a different continent even. he did not want
to go because he was not keen on going to strange places alone. he did not want
to leave his group either. workplace insisted that boy goes. he also worried
that this will worsen his relationship with girl. however girl assured boy that
3 months is not so much time, they will be fine as a long distance couple, the
job is probably worth it in the long run. boy reluctantly agreed to the
training. he packed up, said his goodbye, hopped on a plane and flew away.
workplace arranged a private hotel room for accommodation. although around this
time internet was already ubiquitous but not smartphones, the time difference
between his new place and his old place was quite a lot so synchronous
communication methods like instant messaging and videochats were not convenient.
he relied on emails for communication. he started one thread with girl and one
thread with flatmate. his work training was quite boring and boy was not
interested in sightseeing either. outside work he just spent his time alone in
the hotel room. he did not have much to say to girl. the email exchanges they
had were quite short and to the point. mostly just status updates and long
distance word hugs. that is how the email thread with flatmate started too.
however in flatmate&apos;s case he had a lot of undisclosed thoughts. now that boy
was far away and the fact he had started working professionally, started his
adult life, he thought maybe he has not much to lose. at worst he could just not
go home at all. he wanted to dump all his thoughts on unsuspecting flatmate in
email. boy found the email medium much easier to deal with. he can slowly think
through what he wants, write it down and then just press a button when he is
ready. things he would not have guts to say in person was now possible to
communicate through email. this was his fantasy after all. to completely open up
to another person. boy wrote an email and sent it. he messed it up.
</p>

<p>
boy did not thought his emotions and thoughts through. he dumped them on
flatmate in raw, undigested form. flatmate had no chance making sense of them.
he made flatmate deal with his feelings. she was angry at boy about this
irresponsible way of communication. she was was fine with boy feeling emotions
and working through them with her but he should take responsibility for them.
she tried explaining this to boy repeatedly but boy did not get the message. in
the emails boy explained that he is attracted to flatmate and would like to be
with her but he also liked what he had with girl. he did not understand what
this feeling was and what should he do now. he was sort of expecting flatmate to
come up with a solution for his dilemma. for him everything, including his
emotions had to have rational explanations. he went on trying to come up with
all sorts of silly rationalizations of his feelings, cost benefit analysis of
the various solutions, all sprinkled with many self depreciation comments. he
presented all this like if flatmate and girl were just pawns in boy&apos;s
calculations for maximizing his life happiness. all this was unfair and
insulting to flatmate. he wrote long walls of nonsensical text and thus made
flatmate angry. eventually boy apologized in his own, nonsensical way of writing
which flatmate accepted after she realized she cannot talk much sense into boy.
they did not talk much about this topic afterwards.
</p>

<p>
the 3 months slowly passed and boy was back in apartment. he did not like
keeping secrets so he explained girl what he did without going into too much
details. girl was not amused but since he did not actually do anything sinful,
she did not get angry, she appreciated the honesty. girl always trusted
flatmate, she knew flatmate was also just a victim to boy&apos;s craziness, she did
not get angry at her either. the relationship between boy and flatmate got a bit
colder but they remained friends. they did not talk about the emails afterwards
as if they wished they never happened.
</p>

<p>
another year passed. boy had a good job. he did not like it very much but he
understood that he would like other places even less. nevertheless boy
interviewed at another prestigious multinational company in a far away, western
country. he did not think much of it at first but he managed to get an offer to
work there. boy heard only good things about this company and the offered salary
was also much higher than his current one. but it also meant leaving behind the
apartment. girl was a little bit reluctant to go too. the prestige, money and
the experience of a foreign country was attractive. boy was leaning on going.
girl asked boy to marry her already and then she will go with him.
</p>

<p>
boy understood girl wanted marriage for a while now. for boy marriage was just a
technicality but he understood it meant a lot for girl. he wanted to have family
with girl so he did not really have objections against it except for one thing.
he felt that he had way too little part of his fantasies fulfilled and with girl
he will not ever be able to fulfill those. he feared that later he might get a
chance or find a way to fulfill some of those fantasies in ways girl would not
fully approve of. he might even want to have sex with others. he was feeling a
big void in his life and he could not bear the idea of locking away the full
human experience forever. he cannot marry girl if he is kept on a leash. girl
was sad to hear this. girl&apos;s heart was limitless though. he heard boy. girl said
he does not want boy unhappy. if he is honest with her, they can work through
this even if it meant boy having his crazy adventures. boy was happy to hear
this and agreed to the marriage. they quickly married privately without any
pompous ceremonies. then they packed up and left for the greener fields.
</p>

<p>
in the new city boy and girl rented a nice two bedroom apartment and the two of
them lived alone. boy was spending most of his time at work, girl was learning
the new language. during evenings and weekends they spent their time at home
watching movies or just generally being lazy since boy continued to show
complete lack of interest in leaving his home. boy was missing their previous
arrangement. he suggested that they should get flatmates again in the hopes
things will get more fun again. they understood that their relationship with
their previous flatmates was very good and it is unlikely that any new roommate
will be the same. the previous flatmates were not picked randomly, they knew
them well, girl even lived with one of them for a while. they wanted the new,
stranger flatmates only for short stays just to be on the safe side. girl was
quite the social butterfly. she quickly managed to build up a small social
network for herself mostly consisting of expats from her country living in their
new city. she could find roommates through her social network, she never needed
to formally advertise the free room. their new apartment was more modern. each
bedroom had its own bathroom and shower room and the bedrooms connected to the
living room directly. no longer was the case that people had to go through each
other&apos;s private room multiple times per day. each person could have its own
undisturbed privacy if they wanted to.
</p>

<p>
many years passed. boy and girl lived more or less happily. they had many short
term flatmates, men, women, couples. for boy none of them felt like what he
before. he socialized very little with any of the new flatmates. boy spent most
of his time in the living room where he installed his computer. a lot of the
flatmates spent their time in their private room. boy had very little contact
with them. he could not really connect with anyone. it turned out that there
were more benefits for boy in their previous arrangement than boy initially
suspected. in the old apartment the door between the two bedrooms was always
open. anybody could enter the other room any time and they even had to do so
occasionally just to move around in the house. everyone trusted each other so
well that this was not a problem. if someone needed more privacy, they went into
the bathroom. boy and girl had a curtain around their bed. though boy did not
really care, girl felt comfortable like that, especially during sexy times. the
other magical part was that each bedroom had two inhabitants who talked a lot
with each other. boy and girl heard what flatmate and sister are talking and
vice versa. as boy listened in on these conversations, he learned a lot about
each person&apos;s personalities without actually having to participate. he could
even tune out any time without repercussions in case he did not feel like
listening to others. through this boy felt more connected to his flatmates and
as such he felt it easier to have small talk with them later on. with the
constant back and forth walking through the apartment he was even forced to have
the occasional small chat. this tremendously improved boy&apos;s social skills. all
this was unavailable in his new environment. he could not connect with the new
flatmates. nevertheless boy still wanted to keep trying new flatmates.
</p>

<p>
boy was not happy. to escape his sadness he doubled down on his porn. his porn
continued to be softcore. all he cared is looking casual nudity and imagining
himself in situations where he can share his casual nudity with others and be
accepted like he is. whenever nobody was at home, he was looking at porn and
masturbating. he masturbated a lot. like most addictive behaviors, it did not
help. he became sadder and just masturbated more. he did not think much of this
at first. as the addiction spiraled and as he was spending all his time on
masturbation he started to get more introspective. maybe all this sadness of his
is due to porn. he never really liked the fact that he is masturbating. he tried
to wean himself off of it in the past but he never succeeded. he decided to quit
it for real this time. it was hard. he had many false starts. eventually he
succeeded. he managed to wean off porn and stay free of it for almost a year. he
did not even masturbate, all he had is the sex with girl. boy&apos;s mood recovered.
during that time he was not depressed anymore but he still felt a void in his
life. he still felt that he needs more to be fully happy. eventually he did not
see much benefit of being fully off porn, so he started looking at it
occasionally again. however he learned to have self control. he consumed it
rarely and he appreciated it like an expensive fine wine.
</p>

<p>
time passed. a new flatmate was coming. it was girl&apos;s childhood bestie. she was
coming for a few months to study language. boy was looking forward to this new
roommate because he already knew her. girl forced boy to meet her a long time
ago. boy knew that bestie is quite a friendly and easygoing person. maybe he can
connect a little bit better with her. bestie started living them. girl and
bestie talked a lot with each other. passively listening to these conservations
helped boy get to know bestie. she spent a lot of time in the living room, or
when she went to her bedroom to study, she left her door open. boy had a lot of
chances to practice small talk which he did. he got comfortable around bestie.
</p>

<p>
it was summer. summers in the new country were quite cold, people were not
really sweating. boy&apos;s living room had large windows instead of walls. when sun
shined, it could get quite hot nevertheless. to compensate boy tried to wear as
little clothes as allowed. when alone or only in girl&apos;s presence he was often
completely nude. he liked being nude because he did not want to hide himself. on
the contrary, he wanted to show off himself so that the world accepts him as he
is even if it meant sometimes feeling a bit cold. boy was comfortable around
bestie so he told her he likes to be nude. he then asked if he can be nude
around. bestie said she does not mind nudity but maybe he should not. girl said
the same thing. this time had the courage to understand this as a yes. he
thought they might be uncomfortable with this but they will survive if he does
this. this was big step for boy. this meant bestie would be the second trusted
person on earth to whom he could show himself fully naked. he always wanted to
do this even with others but this was the first time he gained enough courage
over time to actually act on his desires. before this time he was also concerned
about his circumcision. by this time he learned that it was not a big deal. in
fact, it made him wanted to show his penis even more. accepting his imperfect
body would have meant even greater respect than accepting a perfect one. boy
started out hanging out nude in front of his computer. one day he acquired the
courage to walk to the kitchen nude for a glass of water in front of bestie.
bestie was very casual about it. she did not even flinch, mind or even give him
much attention. boy started walking around naked even more. bestie continued to
act casually. girl was a little bit uncomfortable with this but she let boy live
his fantasy out. this was exciting for boy. there he was, naked, and people
accepting him. sometimes it was a little bit too exciting him. in those cases he
had to go back to his computer corner and wait a bit to cool down. he wanted to
show off his erection too so people accept his even more private and shameful
aroused state too. that would mean even deeper acceptance. however he was not
comfortable with that yet. although it was exciting for boy to be naked in
bestie&apos;s presence, bestie never acknowledged him the way boy wanted. she never
visibly looked at his penis, she never made any comments or questions about his
penis. boy wanted to know if bestie noticed his circumcision and if she accepts
him even like that. boy did not push the conversation further since bestie had a
fianc at home. he did not want to create any drama due to misunderstandings.
one afternoon bestie had a terrible headache. boy offered a back massage. bestie
gladly accepted, she loved massages. she lied down on the sofa, took off her
shirt and bra in a private manner so boy had an access to bestie&apos;s fully exposed
back. boy knew that if he is nude he would not be able to go through this
without an erection so he put his underwear back on before working on bestie.
all this happened in girl&apos;s presence so boy did not feel dirty doing this. boy
massaged until girl finished cooking their dinner, about 15 minutes. afterwards
bestie said she quite liked the massage, boy had good hands. as time went on,
boy was getting more and more comfortable around her. however bestie&apos;s planned
return slowly approached. boy continued to hang out nude to get his fantasy fix
until bestie leaves. the time came. bestie packed up, said her goodbye and left
without ever acknowledging boy&apos;s penis. boy and girl was alone again.
</p>

<p>
boy was a bit happier than before. he had the chance to physically open up to
another person. however this time he missed the emotional openness. boy remained
unsatisfied. one experience remained in his mind. bestie complimented him on the
massage. he was wondering that if he could massage people he might have more
chance to fulfill his fantasies. he wanted to see flatmate&apos;s and bestie&apos;s naked
bodies. he never had the chance. he did not only want a glance, he wanted to
study them, really immerse himself in their bodies not sexually but with
curiosity. he thought that through massage he could study other bodies and maybe
connect with others. he talked through this with girl who liked the idea of boy
learning massage and even found a nice class for him to learn relaxation
massage. boy signed up and started attending the sessions. it was different from
what boy expected. about a dozen of people attended the class and most were
women. there was only one other man. first half of each session was a classroom
study of anatomy. the instructor talked through a slideshow while the students
made notes. she was teaching muscles, bones, skin structure, various diseases,
indications and contraindications of massage. the second half was more exciting
since it was about practicing the massage on each other. this is what boy was
excited about. the excitement flattened when he learned how the instructor
massaged. she always told the clients to keep the pants and bras on, she only
did back and legs, she avoided massaging the chest and stomach area because
that&apos;s more sexual to her than relaxing, and she draped aggressively. the
students had to follow her teaching. when some girls went to the changing room
to dress off and took their bras off so that people do not need to fuss around
with their bras, the instructor asked them to put them back on. this way the
sessions were quite boring for boy. there was not the slightest chance that he
will see anything exciting. he liked the touch, he just did not find the
intimacy he was looking for. the massage course consisted of 8 sessions, one
session every other saturday. one of the requirements for the massage
certificate was to do case studies. he needed to find clients, massage them and
then write a report about the session. since he did not know anybody, he asked
girl to arrange clients from her social circle. she did so. boy did not want to
stray off the protocol, he did the massage the way he was taught. clients kept
the underwear on and boy draped them well. he did not mind doing the massages
but he did not get his fix from it. he did not know most of his clients either.
boy was not good at small talk so he let girl talk with them before and after
the massage, boy just did the massaging. boy never asked anything in exchange.
he did them for free with the story that he needs them for his case studies.
clients reported that they liked the massage. he even had a handful of repeat
clients. it was hard for boy to justify why clients should come again. he had
his case study about them the first time they came. if they were to come again,
there was no easy way for clients to feel that they paid for the service. boy
did not want to ask for money because seeing and touching bodies was all the
payment he needed.
</p>

<p>
there was one lady who really liked the massage. she came back many times. boy
did not want money so she usually brought cookies. one day boy suggested that he
wants to do stomach side as well. lady did not object so boy started massaging
that part too. boy also came up with the idea that a massage should cover the
buttock area too since there are many muscle endings there. lady did not object
to that either. whenever boy was massaging the back, he also pushed down the
pants a bit so that he better access that part of her body. one day her adult
daughter came for a massage too since she was curious to see what this massage
was like given her mother went to boy so often. both lady and daughter had
attended some massage courses in their past but neither of them was actively
massaging. after the massage daughter gave some tips to boy how to improve his
game. she showed him improved draping techniques and she suggested that boy
could massage the whole chest area too, even for ladies since that is how she
learned. boy really liked this tip. boy hoped that daughter will return so that
he can practice on him. she never did but lady did. boy told what daughter said
and lady did not object. he told lady she might as well be naked, boy will drape
her well. lady was naked under the sheets. boy was happy. an exposed lady was
under her hands, covered by the sheets, trusting boy that he will not abuse his
position. boy did everything the way he learnt. he followed the draping
technique meticulously, lady was never exposed. when boy got to chest area, he
uncovered lady, fully exposing her bare chest. boy was even happier. there was
lady in front of him with even more trust in him. boy massaged the chest but
avoided the breast area because he was not sure he can touch that area or not.
when the massage was over, the magic ended. he covered her up and left the room.
lady reported that she enjoyed the massage. she came back many times afterwards.
boy enjoyed working on her. boy wanted a bit more so he tried pushing his luck.
he asked if he could use looser draping in her crotch area in the private hopes
that he can catch a glimpse of her private area. to boy&apos;s dismay lady said she
preferred the ordinary draping. boy continued doing the same massage the same
way and lady continued coming back for a while. then the frequency of visits
started dropping, eventually she stopped coming. in the early sessions when lady
was still a bit uncomfortable about what is expected in return, boy suggested
that she does the massage she learned on him. lady said it was long time passed
since she done it last time but she agreed. when the time came, she said that
this massage is done naked. boy was happy to hear that. he was expecting that he
can fully expose himself to someone. she draped well so boy did not had the
chance to show his penis off. boy liked the massage nevertheless. she did a
quite involved massage, requiring a lot of strength, boy understood why she
stopped doing it. boy was doing his massage on the floor but lady&apos;s massage
required a massage table which was a bit involved to transport over. a while
later boy asked for this massage again but lady refused, she really did not want
to do these massages so she kept just bringing cookies.
</p>

<p>
time passed. boy kept thinking about satisfying his curiosity. one thing that he
remembered sometimes is his experience with friend. he liked the trust he had
there. boy realized since he is not really looking for sex, he does not
necessarily need women to have deep connections with. he expanded what he is
looking for. he found a male nude yoga group. it sounded weird but it might
worth a shot, he thought. he signed up for a class and went there. there were
dozen of other guys. everybody disrobed, so did boy. he liked the feeling of
being nude in front of others. he took a quick glances at other people but he
did not feel comfortable staring so he did not. the yoga itself was in a
darkened room, the exercises were quite rapid, so he did not spend a lot of time
staring at others, nor did others visibly stare him. after the exercises there
was a communal shower. there were two shower rooms. one fit three people, the
other only two. boy was one of the last people showering in the two people room.
the thought of boy was showering fully exposed in the presence of another person
was somewhat exciting for boy. he got a anxious that he might get an erection
and how embarrassing that would be. to be safe, he quickly finished his shower,
left the shower room, dressed up and went home. he did like the experience but
it was not as satisfying as he expected. he did not connect with other people.
for that he needs to repeatedly expose himself to the experience. however the
group is quite far away from his place, quite late, and requires payment, all
giving an obstacle for boy. he never went again. not because he did not want to
but rather it required way more effort and planning than he was comfortable
with.
</p>

<p>
time passed again. there was not much excitement in boy&apos;s life. over time he
thought of many ideas but he never really acted on any of them. he always had
some excuses. he thought of going to a nudist beach. his problem with this was
the same as with the naked yoga. he did not really like the idea of going to
beach on its own. he could not even recall when was he last time on any beach.
passively staring at nude people would not give boy his fix. it might make him
even more annoyed having everyone exposed, yet not being able to connect with
people due to his social anxieties and general lack of ability to talk with
people. he would need to repeatedly go before he finds the right set of people
he can connect and hang out with naked. repeatedly going to a nude beach was
infeasible for him because he lived in a cold and very religious country that
did not have public nudist groups. he did not want to go alone either. girl did
not really like the idea of going to nudist beaches. she was not opposed to
clothing optional resorts but she preferred not to if she had a chance. boy
never pushed this idea further. boy also thought of using escort services. even
with girl&apos;s approval, he could not do it. he does not like going to a stranger&apos;s
place, paying large sums of money for connection. he would not feel it genuine.
the temporary connection he would get would be over after the session. boy wants
a lasting connection. a friend with who he could talk for hours, maybe through
email. he then thought of finding email penpals. he found a few people on online
forums with whom he started talking. he started threads with more people but
only a few of them had a style and content resonating with boy. he slowly opened
up with those and started sharing very personal thoughts. as the length of the
letters grew, the email threads he had slowly died off. he did not want to push
others to keep the discussion since he did not even know who the others were.
although he did not talk about it, boy wanted to know the people in real life
even if he only talked to them through emails. he wanted to be sure that in case
he fully opened to the other person emotionally, he had the chance to open up
physically. for boy talking with distant strangers on the internet meant that
there was a very little chance for the latter. he thought of using dating sites
instead. he did sign up for a free site in the past but the fact that he had to
start discussions was quite daunting for him. he never felt comfortable
initiating. he always closed his accounts after long periods of inactivity.
</p>

<p>
time passed again. boy and girl started approaching their thirties. girl wanted
children. boy was not that keen on the idea since that meant giving up a lot of
his freedom. he feared the amount of time and effort the child will need. he
feared the chance of having a high attention child. girl insisted. nevertheless
boy wanted to keep girl happy. boy agreed to the idea of children and a year
later they had their son. boy wanted to avoid being a bad father. he wanted to
ensure when he is at home, he never ignored son. son turned out requiring a lot
of attention. boy had to hold and carry son a lot to calm son down, to stop him
from crying. boy was happy to do that. he started spending less time on his
computer. he did not mind that, since he was mindlessly consuming the internet
most of the time anyways. when the initial shock of the new baby subsided, boy&apos;s
desire for more connection and sexuality in his life was back on his mind.
</p>

<p>
[to be continued, maybe.]
</p>
</body></html>
