so the other day i was thinking about all these nudity and exhibitionism
fantasies again. i am not sure what to do with this. i have been nude with other
people but there is always something lacking which i cannot really put my finger
on. i have not actually tried this but even if i were to upload pictures about
myself naked, i think i would not feel any satisfaction either or it would be
temporary. i think it is the same with other explicit fantasies as well. even if
one could get some satisfaction, it is usually temporary and then they need to
do something again. i think maybe if one could gamify this whole thing, it would
keep people busy enough to trick them into satisfaction. so i have an idea. and
obviously as a tech person my idea is to use more tech. and it only applies to
this niche section of sexuality, the exhibitonism.

a sidenote first: i do not think the nudist lifestyle is an answer to this. for
a nudist being nude is normal. with exhibitionism some of the kick stems from
the fact that this is something forbidden or something that society disapproves
of. there is not much sexual energy in pure nudism. also, one could get easily
banned from most places for flaunting an erection.

so exhibitionism is about flaunting yourself in front of others potentially with
some innocent sexual connotations. and i think one gets more kick out of it in
real life than doing it online. however we shall not dismiss the power of
putting oneself online too. there are two problems: where would one find a safe
place for flaunting and what would be the point of flaunting?

my idea is to create a gamified social network site just for this! anyone can
register there. the point of the game is to connect with the most people you
can. there is a rule for establishing a connection with another member though:
the two people must upload a picture of them flashing their genitals to each
other. if they have the picture, they can become friends. in other words the
goal of the game is to meet locally with as many people as possible and take
genital pictures together! once they have a connection, they can chat with each
other. as a bonus, all uploaded photos and the member graph would totally public
for an extra kick. by the way xgeec would be a shorthand for "exhibitionists'
genital exchange".

totally crazy idea, right? who would ever play this game? probably not many
people. i would totally think about trying it though in order to help myself to
get rid of any shame that society imposes on us about our bodies and sexuality.
to help me learn to ignore what other people think about me (writing stuff like
this into this blog really helps with that though). to accept my body as it is
and not to be ashamed about it (i already managed to do this though). i just
assume there might be other people like this and as such i want a little corner
on the internet for us.

i have seen some dating sites, hookup sites, nudist connection sites but usually
they are very open ended and require a lot of effort to communicate what exactly
you want and then find the right people. xgeec would be laser focused on: 1.
arrange a quick meeting, 2. pull down trousers and underwear, 3. snap a pic, 4.
upload, 5. optionally put clothes back on. when the other person approves the
pic, the pic and the connection goes public. 2 and 3 can be done in a secluded
corner of a public place. there is not much place to second guess intentions or
for worrying about what will happen because there is a script and it is very
simple. one does the deed and it is over. it has a beginning and an end. one can
feel some after satisfaction establishing a connection. the connection appearing
publicly is the stimulating feedback one might yearn for.

it motivates reclusive people like myself to get out of the house because there
is very little string attached to acquiring a connection. it also helps me build
connections since in order to do this i need to meet with other, new people. as
i explained above, one can only talk to people they already have a connection
to. i would need to reach out to my existing connections in order to arrange
meetups with new people. even this can be motivating in itself: if i arrange a
meeting for someone else i feel like i am useful, that i am providing some value
to someone else. i would probably add a helpful metadata for this though: i
would allow tagging the pictures with "weak tie" vs "strong tie". one would have
weak ties with people they do not know, they only met for the pic. strong ties
mean that the other party is a friend, they talk and stuff. when browsing
profiles, i could then see who could arrange a meeting with my target person: i
would be looking for a 3rd party that has a strong tie with both me and the
target rather than a weak tie.

a social network is worth nothing if there are no people on it. but i think it
would be super easy to seed this site compared to other social networks. this
site is not intended for building relationships or creating perfect profiles. it
is solely about uploading semi-naked group pictures. crypto geeks have their
"key signing parties", exhibitionists could have their "flashing parties".
suppose there are several folks interested in the site, all living in the same
city. i could find a small place for them where they could come to, snap a
couple group photos and then upload the pics afterwards. now the network is
seeded in that city and the members can start expanding the network via word of
mouth.

and this would be even super cheap to run. i would only allow 1 pic per profile
and 1 pic per connection. i would even aggressively downsize pics in order to
fit like 200kb since hosting high definition pictures is not the goal of the
site. furthermore i would delete all messages after 30 days so that i do not
keep stuff forever. maybe i would even delete pics after 2 years so people do
reconnect now and then. i would even delete profiles after 3 years of inactivity
so that the site is not a ghost town. i think the data for all this would be
peanuts, i could even run it on a free tier of a hosting provider. i should
totally create such a site. or even better: someone should beat me to it so i do
not have to deal with this all. this why i put all my ideas onto my blog but i
do not think anybody would ever bother with my crazy ideas.

one more observation: i think i really like this idea because there is a script
in it. i know what the game is about. i wonder if this could be generalized.
have a website that contains all sorts of weird sexual scripts that could be
acted out in a safe place. i am mostly talking about stuff that requires
multiple people since otherwise it would be about dating and hookups for which
there are a lot of sites. i talked about this in previous post but let me recap
some ideas:

- nude workouts
- shaving clubs
- shared masturbations
- play something akin to the "naked attraction" tv show
- vanilla sex or orgies
- roleplaying (e.g. take a star trek porn and play it through)
- fetishes (servants, pain, anything)

the website would contain various such activities in which the members can
express interest. if there are physically close members with common interests,
the site would match them. it would also offer a venue for the activity that the
members could pay together in case they do not have one. something like
meetup.com but for sex stuff.

maybe there is such a website but i did not find anything like that. i think
there would be a dime a dozen of such websites if sexuality would not be such
a big deal. things are getting better over time but i think there is still a lot
of room for improvement.
