# aicritic: make the AI your harshest critic

I now use AI to improve my blog posts (starting from this post).
I love it, so let me share my process.

I fantasized about having an editor ever since reading https://mtlynch.io/editor/.
I suddenly wanted feedback on whether my writing is adequate.
The downside of hiring an editor: it's expensive, slow, requires talking to humans.

I realized that the modern AIs can do that quite well with the right prompt.
So as an experiment I wrote my initial draft and used this prompt (with $CONTENT replaced with the draft):

> What is the biggest issue in this informal draft blog post: $CONTENT

Right away it responded with this for my initial draft of this post (see @/aieditor):

> The biggest issue with the draft is its lack of a clear focus and a compelling narrative.
> The post reads more like a stream of consciousness or a personal journal entry rather than a structured blog post.
> [...]

Wow.
After some retrospection that felt very accurate.
This is the type of feedback I want.

I then kept revising and asking the AI's opinion on my revisions using that prompt.
This prompt is quite awesome!

Once the post's form stabilized, I continued to prompt it in various ways.
Here are some examples:

- Fact check ...
- What disengages the reader in ...
- What text-only change could improve the engagement in ...
- Tell me the grammar issues in ...

The AI continued to provide valuable suggestions, so I kept prompting it until its feedback was no longer helpful.
I went through quite a lot of revisions before @/aieditor became what you are reading now (too much to count).
I never copy-pasted from AI; I always manually applied its suggestions.
I don't want the AI writing the text instead of me.
I just need some handholding.
As a person who is wary of AI, this level of engagement still feels acceptable.

I found the process quite fun!
It turns out criticism can be quite enjoyable if you ask for it and it comes from a machine rather than a person.
It doesn't mean the feedback is always valid and I have to accept it.
It's just nice to see my writing from a different perspective.
I can highly recommend this practice if you do creative writing.

If you ever wondered how to make use of AI, well, here's the answer: ask it to criticize you. :)

- Edit 2025-07-29: Some other good prompts are "Is my main point clear?", "Is the structure logical?", "Does it flow well?".
- Edit 2025-09-05: Simply prepending a freestanding instruction like "Tell me the non-comma and non-hyphen grammar issues." to my text works surprisingly well too.

!pubdate 2025-06-16 2025-09-05
