# liquid: an idea about how to implement liquid democracy.

i always had problems with politics and voting. my problem with today's form is
that the system is way too simplistic and rigid. in the end the choice usually
boils down to choosing between two parties, the one you hate less. then wait and
hope things do not go way too bad. this is a false choice to me. i feel
completely disconnected from the process and therefore i feel like abstaining
until i see a better alternative.

i came across the liquid democracy idea which is pretty neat. i will not go too
deep into the details or merits of the idea but the main idea is that people can
vote on directly on the issues or appoint delegates that can vote on their
behalf in issues related to specific topics. people can change these delegations
at any moment. this makes campaign circus every 4 years somewhat obsolete which
is also a nice benefit.

it is also important to note that it is actually quite easy to migrate to a
democracy like this if people wish so. one can create party that provides the
above system and then commits to vote in the office according to the people's
wishes. if a person wants to vote for party x, they could still vote for this
proxy party and in the system they would set their preferences to follow party
x's votes. i understand politics is more than just voting but for the sake of
brevity i only want to focus on this part for now.

there is only one problem with this idea: it is not obvious how to maintain
anonymity in this system. i did a quick internet search but did not find much
discussion around the topic. i did find a lot of blockchain mumbo jumbo as if it
would solve anything in this aspect of the problem. or the other things i found
was questioning this feature of democracy which is also quite absurd. i am sure
there are lot of good solutions to this but before searching deeper, i like to
give it a thought of my own: how would i reinvent things with zero practical
knowledge. writing down just helps me make the ideas more concrete. i will get
everything wrong but at i might learn something out of this when i am reading
about serious solutions.

my system would have couple important concepts:

- public profile: this is a person whose identity is publicly known and their
  votes are publicly visible for accountability. these people would be the
  "politicians" who would be publicly standing up for various things. anybody
  could register as a public person. voters can delegate votes only to public
  people.
- private profile: this is a user in the system without an identity attached.
  they can vote directly or delegate votes to public profiles. this is what most
  people would register as.
- issues: this is what people can vote on. you have a question and a list of
  outcomes that people can vote on. there would always be an option for
  abstaining, and also for marking the question as invalid or false choice. i am
  not sure about the voting algorithm though: i am vacillating between approval
  voting and instant runoff voting with optional preferences. i like the former
  for its simplicity. on the other hand the latter has even better properties at
  the cost of much harder decisionmaking at the voting time.
- tree of topics: each issue must belong to a specific topic. and each topic
  must belong to a parent topic (there would be a root topic). this is only
  needed for categorizing the questions for the convenience of delegations.
  think of topics as directories, issues as files in those directories if that
  makes it any simpler.

had i a website for this, i would not allow much discussion to happen on the
site other than casting the votes. this way there is no need for moderation
which can avoid a lot of problems and makes the site lightweight. as to where
the votable issues coming from: that is a bit outside scope of this brainfart
but the general gist is that it would go through formal channels and the only
people that can suggest votable issues are the people who then agree to be held
accountable for the outcomes.

one familiar with the concepts of liquid democracy can probably already imagine
how one could create a system using the above concepts: after people log in,
they can see issues, cast their votes directly, or set up delegations to public
profiles for specific topics (e.g. healthcare, education, or just
education/highschoolers). they also see their historical votes, and what
delegation chain led to that vote if any.

however two issues remain: how to ensure one person can have only one account
and how can someone verify that their vote counted.

i assume that the country already has a way to uniquely identify its citizens
with some sort of official id card. i imagine this algorithm after i decided
that i want to participate in the voting anonymously:

- i go to an official registration office where i show my id card and i receive
  a ticket in exchange.
- with the ticket i can register into the online system from home and
  participate in the votes for a limited time.

my main goal here is to ensure the fact that there is no computer system that
somehow associates my identity to my profile in the voting site. in order to
achieve this my idea is to split the registration into two steps done at a
different time by different organizations.

for simplicity let's assume the registration part happens in january (no voting
during that time) and voting happens during the rest of the year, from february
until december.

in january the first organization checks my identity and then it records this
fact into their database. this registration fails if i am already in the
database. the only thing the database records is the unique identifier on my id
card (e.g. social security number). then as a proof they (or some other trusted
organization) issue me a ticket which is a pair of public and private keys which
i can use as a proof that i correctly proved my identity. the ticket's public
key goes into a separate database so that the ticket is not linked to my id
number. the organization throws ticket's private key away, only the voter keeps
it.

on the 1st of february this organization would release the list of people who
registered for voting and the list of public keys of the tickets the system
generated. the two lists are not connected but they should have the same number
of elements. this way people could check who registered for voting and also
ensure that there are no invalid tickets maliciously generated (or if there are,
it's obvious). though the only way to audit the lack of invalid registrations
would be to confirm with every registered voter that they indeed registered.
independent auditors can probably use some statistical methods to estimate the
number of invalid registrations.

the second organization is the one that runs the voting site. in order to
register here you need a valid ticket from the first organization. you need the
private key for the registration and one ticket gives one registration only.
this way no person can register as another person unless they stole their
private key but in that case the former person cannot register. again, this
error is detectable even if not correctible. this system also does not collect
anything other than a (perhaps randomly generated) username and password. no
email address even to avoid the possibility of linking data after a leak (again:
users should use separate sites to keep informed about what is going on; i am
imagining an infrastructure service, not a social networking site). even the
ticket's public key is not linked to a specific user other than marked as used
in a separate table.

the registration is valid only for a year. people will lose passwords or have
their accounts hacked. since the system itself does not link accounts to the
real people, those accounts will be lost until their expiration. this would be
the cost of people not being careful with their password (a sort of perverse
democratic darwin award). however the damage is only temporary because next year
people can re-register.

the other problem is accountability of the votes. i think the solution for that
is just public dumps of the actual votes. after each vote the system releases a
big file that contains a row with 2 elements: random unique number identifying
the voter and the actual votes (the delegation chain would not be public, the
system resolves those automatically, only the final votes remain). the unique id
for the voters would change after each vote so that it is impossible for anyone
to track voters over time yet each voter can independently verify that their
vote is in the official dump.

and that would be the gist of it. obviously as it stands there are a lot of
rough edges that need careful thought. it does not rely on any wasteful
blockchain crap though. sure, it requires a trusted central authority running
this but as long as that authority is transparent, i do not see a problem with
this. if a society cannot arrange this, then no amount of blockchain technology
can save it. if it can then the blockchain tech is not really needed.

i can see a bunch of parties starting up. the only sad part of it that although
most of them embrace blockchain as the savior of earth, they do not care much
about anonymity. or at least they are not doing good job explaining why they ask
for my name and other data and how can i be sure that it will never leak away:
linking my votes and my identity. not that i particularly care about my votes
being public or not, i just want to make sure the system gets this aspect right.
i will look out for stuff like this and see how it goes.

by the way, speaking of blockchain. one of my annoyances with blockchains is
that they unnecessarily burn lot of computation away. it's wasteful. i'm using a
fully central solution here. i think that's a fair tradeoff in exchange for
greater efficiency. the whole system i'm describing here could run on a single
raspberry pi even for multi-million users. usually centralization happens for
saving resources. i don't have much qualms about this as long as centralized
component's scope and features are very limited.

and the actual decisionmaking might slow down, one won't be able to make
unpopular things into law since people won't vote on it. i think that's fair
compromise. if someone wants to make an unpopular change affecting the whole
population, i think it's fair that they should first convince the whole
population to want it rather than forcing it down their throat (as opposed to
convincing only a few politicians). or maybe try to convince smaller communities
to willingly canary some changes and only try for the global change if the
canary was successful. in any case, it might not be perfect, but i think it
would make people more interested in the whole political process.

update from 2021:
ha!
such parties actually exist just as i suspected!
examples:

- https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Demoex
- https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Internet_Party_%28Spain%29
- https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Five_Star_Movement

!pubdate 2019-12-22 2021-05-09
