# motivation: i'm way too lazy.

some days i struggle to get myself to do anything at all. i wake up, do my daily
routines but then i spend most of my time with work related stuff like reading
and responding to emails. when i get home i play with family and afterwards i go
to bed and sleep until tomorrow. i do not spend time on hobby projects or on
learning new stuff. weekends are not more productive either. when i was a kid, i
found computer programming quite fun and exciting. i enjoyed solving project
euler puzzles, acm style programming competition problems and writing small
tools here and there. in order to do those i needed to learn about math,
algorithms, programming languages and best practices, operating systems, english
language and many other topics. but today? i feel like i am not learning new
things. that would be fine as long as i would be working on something meaningful
instead, harvesting all the knowledge. that is not happening either. it is like
my time is flying by and i do not have anything to show up in exchange. i am not
investing my time into anything.

there are a few differences in my current life compared to my kid life though.
when i was a kid i had a lot more free time. i was much earlier home compared to
my typical work day. when i was home, i had private room where people left me
alone so i could do anything without disturbances. today i do not have any
privacy. at work i am in an open plan office and at home i have my computer in
the living room so that i do not isolate myself too much from others. this makes
concentration harder especially if others are doing distracting activities. this
somewhat explains why i feel i have little free time and the easier
distractability but it does not explain the lack of motivation i am feeling.

to clarify this lack of motivation is not depression. i do not feel depressed.
it is more like i feel that everything that is important already exists so i do
not see the need to create more software. now that i grew up and got a broad
enough overview about the software field, i feel like the software world hit a
plateau in the late 1980s as people finished implementing all the obvious
software and today's software and computing is just mostly fluff. i feel like we
are over-softwarizing our environment where all we would need is just saner
practices or solutions and then we would not need said software. it is probably
better to leave this topic for a separate blog entry in the future for now as it
is off topic.

it is not only software i am not that much interested though. achieving anything
for me is a burden. let it be exercise, cooking, cleaning. to compensate i just
avoid having bad habits and thus i do not have problems with health or
messiness. i walk to the office, i keep a super clean desk, i do not smoke, i do
not drink alcohol or sugary drinks, i do not buy crap i do not need, i do not
even have money on me most of the time and so on.

yet i still function. i can still keep my job, i still occasionally make a tool
for myself, clean the house, or just generally keep myself alive. how so? i am
definitely not intrinsically motivated to do these things. the motivation comes
from external sources. it is either something annoying me or somebody nagging
me. if i am annoyed with a flaky or inflexible tool, i am somewhat inclined to
write my own version of it. if somebody is pestering me about something, i am
somewhat inclined to do what they want to stop them from pestering me. the
latter has a quite a strong effect on me. if somebody sends me a message, i have
this very strong urge to always have the last word. it is almost and ocd like
tick. if that message has a simple request or a question, i have an urge to do
whatever it asked me or come up with a very good reason why i cannot do it.
these two things get me through my life these days. if the toilet is so dirty
that i am annoyed then i clean it. if at work somebody assigns me a small bug to
fix, i fix it.

on the other hand if the floor is only a little dirty, i will probably not do
anything about it. i am not annoyed so it is fine as it is. as for the second
case: if at work somebody assigns me a big project that needs a lot of
consideration and coordination, i am at a loss. driving such work requires a lot
of inner motivation which i lack. in such cases i rely on having management
aiding me. talking through a project with another person, splitting it into
smaller pieces and then having a manager pestering me about it really does help
me. it is no wonder rubber duck debugging is a thing, it is just that a rubber
duck is not as motivating as a human could be.

i recently came across the concept of "accountability partner". once you find a
partner, both of you agree to a set of goals, you keep periodically reporting to
each other about the progress of your goals and keep each other accountable for
those goals. it is similar to coaching. i think the difference is that while a
coach coaches you, you do not really give anything in return while you do
provide value for your accountability partner. the latter does not feel too much
of a one sided burden. if i were to stop adhering to my goals, that might make
the partner also stop adhering which would make me feel guilty so i am
personally incentivized to adhere to my goals. basically this is setting up the
nagging feeling for myself. i have not really tried this. if i ever find myself
wanting to do a small project, i would totally try this. now if only i had
friends for this. maybe acquiring more friends should be one project. oh well,
something to think about.

so to sum up: i am no longer motivated intrinsically about things like when i
was a kid. i can get around this by having an environment that still motivates
me extrinsically to do things that i really need to get done. however it does
not really lead to working on original, novel things. for that i have no
solution.

!pubdate 2018-05-26
