2021
nokia2720 tweaking and using the nokia 2720 kaios phone.
phones thoughts about phones now that i have to buy a new one.
solomove doing the same exercise throghout the day over and over again.
seennet an idea for a social networking site around videocalling.
reflecting reflect regularly!
grow thoughts about mentoring and schools.
2020
optioning another way to have interesting conversations.
typer my wish for laptoplike device i'd like to exist.
briefquiz a fun, personalized challenge for some kids.
goldentesting an alternative to unittesting.
postmore blog more and link posts to keep discussions shorter.
slowpals a penpals site idea.
mornings mornings are my productive time.
tscriting the backstory of the /tscriter tool.
kbd my experience with the ergodox keyboard with the norman layout.
enacc a silly system for motivating physical exercise.
pens a review of the pens i use and like.
dyncam a barebones way to replace your webcam feed with a talking avatar.
sembr use semantic linebreaks for plaintext.
touch a touching game.
talking a game to learn some secrets about others.
shooter an idea for a simple fps game.
task my task management habits.
2019
liquid an idea about how to implement liquid democracy.
fsbuf buffering filesystem changes to avoid rw mounts.
codeswap an experiment idea to compare coding style efficiencies.
complexity avoid abstractions and things stay manageable.
pain some pains can be embraced rather than drugged away.
thecook a story about learning to ignore people.
cb an idea for a weird twist on facebook.
typeshooter a silly typing fps game idea.
binding keeping books open is hard.
timestamping i don't timestamp my posts.
space weird fantasies about owning a big empty space in a city.
blogging people should blog!
2018
boy a story about growing up.
motivation i'm way too lazy.
efficiency focusing on efficiency leads to complexity.
challenges a way to test one's programming skills.
2017
hierarchies shallow hiearchies are convenient.
money it's bad to rely too much on money.
cars my annoyances with cars in cities.
gps gps makes us lazy.
markup simple markup for simple posts.
simplicity you need strict limits to maintain simplicity.
history i don't keep shell and browser history.
autocompletion i prefer using my brain to autocompletion.
uppercase i don't like uppercase letters.
simulation my answer to the meaning life.
htmlized you can read this site in html.
about short intro about this site.
html
cards questions for a party game, see /talking.
dialog a silly dialog tree, see /optioning.
latest the 4 most recent articles in html format.
peckmania a typing game, see /kbd.
tscriter transcription tester, see /tscriting.
