# semhi: auto-highlighting @/sembr lines

a while ago i wrote about how i love semantic linebreaking in @/sembr.
i still use that form of writing wherever i can
and simply rely on markdown presenting the text in the usual, justified manner.
the source of this post and all the posts after that sembr post are written in this manner.
i also write my emails with sembr
and then convert them to html via my own markdown renderer just before sending them out.
people usually don't notice that i write in this manner.

i was wondering about something.
some sites (e.g. medium.com or google docs) allow you to select a text
and then do an action on the selection.
e.g. add a comment.
so how about making such actions work only on the full lines from the source?
each line is almost of a full thought after all.

so this post is actually an interactive demo!
you need javascript for this to work though.
if you have a mouse and hover over the text,
then you'll see the full line of the text under the mouse highlighted.
(i know some people obsessively highlight sentences as they read.
maybe this could help them a bit too?)
and then you can click or touch on a thought
and a small popup under it will appear with bunch of buttons.
click on the sentence again to dismiss it.

the buttons in the popup don't do anything,
this demo just wants to investigate
if there's any usability benefit of restricting operations to implicit ranges
rather than requiring the user to select the range explicitly.

i think i like the idea
but so far i'm not sure for what would this be a good match for.

edit: a few more notes.
given i use hash in the url to store the state,
i can easily link to a specific line:
the browser will immediately scroll to it.
this can be better observed if you zoom in the page
and then open the url with a specific line in it on a new tab.
i think this is pretty nice.

edit on 2024-10-12: simplified the js.
one gets better at programming over time, fascinating.

!html <style>
!html   .line:hover { background-color: var(--bg-neutral) }
!html   :target { background-color: var(--bg-notice) }
!html </style>
!html <script src=semhi.js></script>

!pubdate 2021-09-26 2024-10-12
!tags demo
