# shooter: an idea for a simple fps game.

this is another of those fantasy posts where i think aloud what sort of game i
would try to make if i had infinite time, motivation and energy to do things. in
the past i sometimes did sit down and start working on a game but i always gave
up after the initial excitement evaporated. at this point, i'm happy if i can
simply formulate what i would do. this way maybe my brain can give the obsessive
thoughts about the game a rest.

so usually when i think about making a game or software, i try to think only
about making the core work well and not care about making it fancy or good
looking. for me if the core is good, i don't need fancy graphics or user
interfaces. in fact, they would just get into the way. i'd only need fancy
graphics if the core is just not good enough, and i'd need some sort of eye
candy that sort of hides the fact that the underlying game is actually boring.
unfortunately most modern games are like that: they look very fancy but are
actually quite boring if you were to remove fancy graphics and replace it with
simple shapes (e.g. spheres). the question is: can you make a shooter that is
fun in itself even if it just consists of, say, spheres. e.g. each enemy and
each projectile, (hell, maybe even the walls) are just spheres?

one of the reasons i'm actually not interested in making such a game, because
there is already one good free single player shooter game: brutal doom when
played on the original doom 2 maps. it runs on a relatively simple engine so it
can't do too fancy stuff. but what remains is basically superb. good feedback on
the enemies, good gun mechanics, good maps, no unskippable videos, no overlong
loading durations, no high computer requirements. it just gets everything pretty
much right. i couldn't find any other game coming near to the utility of this
doom 2 mod. actually, most modern games try to model things more and more
realistically which actually works against the fun of the game. if i wanted a
really realistic shooter, i'd just go play paintball in real life. even though
we already have brutal doom, i wonder, can you go for a significantly simpler
game and still have it quite fun?

one of hard the problem of games is content. in case of shooters you need some
maps and some motivation and goal for shooting all the enemies. i really hate
the overly abstract games where you only play for scores. i'm not very
competitive person, i want to enjoy the game alone, on its own, or if
multiplayer, then it should be some sort of cooperative game where you have to
play together to achieve a common goal rather than competing against each other.
competition is only fun while i'm winning but if i'm constantly on the losing
side, the game becomes quite boring for me. most of the time i don't want to
invest into the game enough to become competitive so i just stick to single
player games.

in this hypothetical game i would take the maps of doom 2. i like those maps
since structurally they are 2d maps yet they still contain rooms with various
heights so the fights have a vertical element. however good maps are not enough
alone. so i'd also add some short story progression text between the level
transitions. i'm not sure what sort of text but each transition text should have
the following properties:

- it's short. about 5-10 lines of text (assuming 80 character lines).
- explains what the player achieved or learned in the previous area story-wise.
- shows a simple overview of the next area and their objectives (e.g. where the
  keys and corresponding doors are).
- explains why the player is entering the next area story-wise.
- mentions some hints about the map secrets so the player has something to look
  out for.
- progresses the main storyline in a suspense building way. the player should
  want to finish the next map just to see what happens.

if it's possible, a few comics would also work but that sounds way too much
effort. text is enough if one is going for simplicity.

on the technical side, i'd just hardcode the game resolution to 640x360. if the
graphics and gameplay are quite simple, it doesn't need a lot of detail. then a
smaller scale is more than enough. smaller scale means that the game is more
performant, it will work on very weak machines too. having a fixed resolution
makes a lot of things very simple: i wouldn't need to deal with supporting all
sorts of aspect ratio issues, making sure my fonts and heads up display are
legible, and many other things like that. i picked that resolution specifically
because scaling it 2x will get me 720p, scaling it 3x will get me 1080p. i like
such exact scaling because then the game can remain pixel exact. i don't like
blurry things.

there would be only one weapon in the game. i think it's important to pick one
weapon and focus on making the gameplay fun with that. i understand that game
can be more compelling if it has a lot of variety but that is not my goal here.
what i'm trying to see if you can make a shooter based on a single gun
compelling enough. but what weapon should i pick? most shooters have 4 common
weapons:

- sniper gun
- tracer gun
- shotgun
- projectile gun

the first option is the sniper rifle with an optional zoom: this is a hitscan
weapon for very long distance battles. this can be quite rewarding but at the
same time quite frustrating if you have bad aim. it's also quite boring in the
sense that you are usually quite motionless, the movement is not that important.
so this gun doesn't satisfy the fun in the movement dimension. there's also the
problem of dealing with lag in multiplayer games. getting the correctness right
is quite a hard problem. one doesn't want to experience the fact that they
correctly clicked on a target, yet the server refused to acknowledge the hit. so
if one wants multiplayer, sniper rifles can get quite tricky to implement
fairly.

by tracer guns i mean guns that are hitscan weapons with high fire rate. the
player needs to trace the enemy continuously - keep aiming at the enemy while
continuously attacking to slowly destroy the enemy's shields and health.
examples are the machine guns in most old shooters, the lighting gun in quake 1,
the link gun in unreal tournament, or most rapid or continuous fire guns. these
are usually mid range weapons. my problem with this sort of guns is that they
are not as satisfying as the other type of guns. with a sniper rifle or shotgun,
you can eliminate the enemies with one shot if you are lucky. that's satisfying
because you get an instant feedback for an action. with tracer guns the gameplay
feels like a grind. gears of war contains lot of action like this and i find
that boring. that game feels like a chore. so i'd totally avoid building the
main gameplay around this.

i love the overpowered shotguns in some of the games. brutal doom has it pretty
good. what i love about them the most is that in close range you can instant
kill the enemy, and gibs of the enemy fly away. it's a very satisfying thing.
and this also requires good amount of movement skill too. you have to run back
and forth against the enemy for the attacks because the shotgun is ineffective
outside its range. this is quite fun but the problem i think i have is that most
of the satisfaction comes from the effect of the gun rather than the skill of
the player. it's not super hard to play with it. and if you go with pure
graphics, a lot of the gun feedback goes away and it won't be as enjoyable, at
least not for long.

by projectile guns i mean guns that shoot flying projectiles that travel at
moderate, constant speed. think of the rocket launcher of quake and unreal
tournament, or the shock rifle's alternative attack in unreal tournament. i also
assume that this gun is not fast firing, so there's some delay between the
shots. i never really liked these guns for two reasons: they were slow so there
was a lot of dead time during action, and more importantly it's usually super
hard to hit moving targets with them. but i have to admit: hitting someone with
such projectile is very satisfying. but still, in total: not fun. at least that
was my opinion until i played shootmania which i think did something genius.

before explaining that, let's talk about the concept of ammo a little bit. ammo
adds a tactical dimension to a game. the amount of ammo you have changes your
tactic. full ammo? go guns blazing. low on ammo? play it very carefully, try to
eliminate enemies one by one with precision attacks. it also paces the game a
little bit. it forces you to explore the map for the resources. so it prevents
the game from being all action. in modern games you even have reloading, which
forces you to take mini-breaks from the action which helps you take a breath and
perhaps rethink your strategy. it's also a nice ritual you do after each battle.
it also helps to add a closure to a battle since you probably won't reload
during a battle unless you absolutely must. you do it when you feel your job is
done. i believe there might be also another psychological aspect of being more
vulnerable during a reload which also satisfies some internal craving of being
defenseless in a safe environment but i haven't thought about this aspect a lot
so let's not get into this.

the problem i have with ammo is that they take away from the purity of the game.
it makes the players inequal. the person with more ammo is at an advantage. so
at this point the game is not pure shooting skill, but also map control tactics.
both shootmania and mass effect solved this very nicely while still retaining
some of the above mentioned benefits: just have infinite, slowly recharging
ammo. in shootmania you have a single gun: a gun that shoots projectiles. but it
has a catch compared to the above games: there's no splash damage, you have to
hit the other player to frag them. that in itself would make it super hard but
to counteract this problem, you can shoot the gun as fast as you can. so you can
spray your enemy with projectiles. but that in itself would make it like a
tracer gun so to counteract that, you have only 3 shots in the gun. but they
quickly recharge, so even if you shoot away all your charges simultaneously, few
seconds later you can shoot again. however if you shoot as soon as your first
charge is ready, you'll need to wait again for your next shot. so what happens
often in close battles is that you have two players dancing around each other,
waiting for the right time to start attacking. too soon - they will have less
charges available - less chance of hitting the enemy. if they wait too long, the
enemy might start spray attacking sooner giving them a high chance for defeating
the player. and there's no unnatural need to run away from a battle due to lack
of ammo. the only thing the player needs to concentrate on is the other player
and the timing. it's as pure skill as possible.

so that's one aspect of gameplay. the other aspect is that you have a projectile
gun which means it's incredibly satisfying when you hit the other person. with a
typical hitscan weapon you just need to move the cursor over the other person's
avatar and shoot. it's a very mechanical skill that requires very good reflexes.
with projectiles you don't need to do that. all you need to do is to predict
where the enemy will be in a few seconds in the future. the nice thing about
this is, that you can compensate for bad reflexes simply by increasing your
distance to the enemy and making better predictions. and it's not like your
predictions must be absolutely perfect. the projectile balls are quite sizeable
so you have quite reasonable margin of error. and since you can spray 3 shots in
a row, you can cover a larger area. or even shoot tactically - use the first
projectile to make the enemy go down a certain path where you'll greet them with
your second projectile.

to summarize: i think a fast shooting projectile gun with limited but recharging
ammunition is the best gun to make a pure skill based bare bones shooter.

alright, we got the weapon down. next up is health. in general i think the
concept of health is silly. especially recharging health. if you have the
concept of health, then you start worrying about health. that takes away from
the pure shooting skill. i think the best thing to do is just to have instant
death. if you hit the enemy, the enemy dies. if the enemy hits you, you die.
shootmania actually gives you 2-3 lives so the first shot doesn't kill you
except for certain gamemodes. i think that's fine too up to a point. but if i
have to be as pure as possible and choose one gamemode, i'd go with one hit one
kill. my motivation here is to simply not allow place for mistakes. if you win a
level then you should win it without any mistakes. that way you will feel the
best about yourself, that's how it should maximise the feeling of achievement.

keep in mind that i'd play this game on doom 2 maps. they are relatively quite
small and if you don't hunt for resources, you can pretty much run through them
quite fast. so you wouldn't need checkpoints or savegame support. the game would
be only about the fact whether you can run through the map without a mistake or
not. the main challenge would be about you avoiding the enemy attacks until you
either manage to run past them or eliminate them based on your preferences. you
make a mistake, you quickly start from beginning and you keep trying until you
can do the level without a mistake. no messing with healths and lives and
whatnot. just pure movement and shooting.

and now come the enemies. i'd represent the enemies as spheres. the projectiles
are also spheres so the collision detection becomes quite easy if you only have
the spheres to spheres case and spheres to a static geometry. and drawing them
is quite easy too: all you need to draw is a quad with a special shader that can
correctly project a spherical texture to that quad with a 3d effect. you don't
really need full human-like geometry to make the shooter fun. you usually need 3
pieces of information about an enemy:

- position of the enemy,
- the direction of the enemy's movement,
- the intent of the enemy.

the position is quite easy to solve: the enemies have a face. you know the enemy
is facing towards you if you see their face. you just need to map the texture
correctly.

you can implement the intent easily too: you just draw a different face for
different action. e.g. if the enemy is preparing to shoot you, you could have a
texture where one of their eyes is closed and they are squinting. of if they
want to dodge, you just draw a big open mouth suggesting they are taking in air
for the jump and have their eyes look into the direction of they planned dodge.

the direction of movement is a bit trickier since you can't represent that with
texture tricks. you need two things: you need to implement "bobbing" during the
movement. basically the sphere should move slightly up and down to indicate the
movement. this is important because if they are moving towards or away from you,
this would be your primary hint. secondly, you need to implement a "footsteps"
like effect. basically every half a second add a quickly fading smoke effect in
their position at the given time. the point is that you should be able to see
the trail of their recent movement. this and the bobbing should be more than
enough indication of the direction. although the technique is relatively simple,
it needs a lot of finesse to get it right for maximum utility.

as for enemies, i wouldn't go overboard either. i'd implement only 3 enemies:

- biter
- diver
- spitter

all three enemies would be quite mobile. if you shoot towards them, they will
try to dodge the projectile. so you actually need to get close to them to battle
with them. the game would be about close to mid range combat. of course that
doesn't mean you can't land the occasional lucky shot but it should be rare (but
incredibly satisfying). and of course the enemies have only one health too, so
the challenge is all about hitting them while avoiding their attacks. as for
differentiating the enemies: i'd just probably color their spheres differently
and that's it.

biters are enemies that try to run towards you, jump on you and then bite your
head off. they are quite easy to deal with as long as you don't let them get too
close. if you do, you have to very carefully dodge their jumps.

divers are flying enemies that fly near you and once close, they dive towards
you. very similar to biters the only difference is that they are not constrained
to the floor. some doom levels have flying enemies, and having some vertical
enemies adds some extra flavor to the game anyways.

spitters also run towards you until they get to a mid range, and then they shoot
projectiles at you. they should be the closest that come to playing against
other players. and your projectile avoiding techniques must be top notch to
avoid their attacks. they should be able to predict your movements via simple
linear interpolation and thus you can't simply run around to avoid attacks, you
would need to move in a completely inpredictable way (which i often struggle
with). they can't spray projectiles like you can do, but if there are multiple
ones, that means a lot of projectiles to avoid.

in general i wouldn't put too many enemies on the map since you only have one
health. too many enemies would just a grind anyways. maybe about 3-7 enemies per
room depending on the size of the current room. that should provide plenty of
spatial challenge in avoiding the attacks, and a tactical challenge in shooting
them all quickly enough.

so that pretty much sums it up. i know one could extend this with gazillions of
stuff. but if i were to make a basic game, i would totally start with only that.
i think the above should be more than possible to finish someone in a few months
from total scratch in c and yet still end up with a quite nice game that doesn't
need a lot of polish.

edit:
some other random ideas in no particular order:

- dying when you didn't see a projectile is annoying, unfair even.
  maybe your back should be protected:
  you don't die if hit from behind.
  makes it into an interesting game mechanic:
  you have to turn away from enemies to be safe.
  it's like instant cover.
  but can be abused in multiplayer so this would only work for singleplayer.
- precision shooting (i.e. headshots) can be very satisfying
  but might not work well if all you have is sphere enemies.
  however here's a tweak:
  you can only kill an enemy if it's flying (i.e. has no contact with the floor).
  so the first shot would always throw the enemies into air
  with the shot's blast radius (i.e. shoot at the ground near the enemy)
  and then you need your second precision shot to pick the enemies down from the air.
  this sort of killing could be quite satisfying.
  probably needs a relatively low gravity environment to make it fun.

!pubdate 2020-02-16 2021-08-17
!tags toimpl
