# touch: a touching game.

i'm quite a reserved person. it's quite hard for me to verbally express my
wishes. i often don't even know what i want. and when i do, then i worry that if
i express it to the other person, they will get offended about me and it just
ruins the relationship. i'm always on the lookout for things that make human
interactions a little bit easier.

i like receiving and giving touch quite much. but people have very diverse
preferences about what is an okay touch and what is not. so i tend to err on the
conservative side and just keep to myself. otherwise i'd need to communicate
with people. fortunately i found a very nice but very simple game that can free
up people from all the worries when it comes to touch. and you can play this
with any willing person. it's called the "3 minute game" and was popularized by
betty martin.

first, let's talk about some aspects of the "wheel of consent", or a simplified
version of it. each act a human does can be categorized into one of the
following 4 dimensions:

- giving: i'm doing something to someone for their benefit
- receiving: someone does something to me for my own benefit
- taking: i'm doing something to someone for my own benefit
- allowing: someone does something to me for their benefit

they complement each other. when person a is giving to b, then b is receiving.
if person a is taking from b, person b is allowing. you can draw this in a fancy
circle, that's where the name "wheel of consent" comes from.

how much giving, receiving, taking, allowing a person does, matters. each person
has a healthy limit for each dimension. going over we get to the "shadow sides"
of the dimensions:

- too much giving: martyr, self sacrificer
- too much receiving: freeloader, entitled
- too much taking: raper, stealer
- too much allowing: pushover, endurer

you want to ensure that every act for everyone involved remains in the inner,
non-shadow side of the dimensions.

next up, you really need to understand which dimension each act is in for each
person involved. suppose you regularly do an activity (e.g. foot massage). you
think you are doing it as a favor for person b so you are in the giving
dimension. for the other person that activity is in the allowing dimension. they
let you do it because they think you like doing it. but giving and allowing are
not complementary dimensions. it turns out nobody really wants that activity yet
none of the people involved realize this. this is basically a variant of the
abilene paradox. there's also the flipside to this: you often don't do some acts
because you think the other person wouldn't like it. however it might be the
case they would allow you to experiment with it. but you don't even ask because
of the fear of rejection.

the "3 minute game" is a short game that helps you structure communication along
those 4 dimensions. it helps you do activities where it is super clear who it is
for. it consists of four 3 minute rounds. in round 1 player a asks player b:

- how would you like me to touch you for 3 minutes?

this means person a will be doing something to person b for person b's benefit.
per above definitions from person a's perspective the activity is giving, from
person b's perspective it is a receiving activity. keep in mind that person a
shouldn't sink to the shadow sides of their dimension, they should only do what
they are comfortable to give to the other person. in other words they have to
consent to the act. if person a is not happy with the arrangement, they might
negotiate a little bit what their limits are and then agree on that. on the
flipside person b might just want a boring neck massage. it doesn't have to
sexual all the time. person a has to accept that in this round it's all about
person b's wishes. once everybody is happy agreed on the activity, person a does
the agreed on touch for 3 minutes. then person b thanks for person a for this.

in round 2, player a again asks player b:

- how would you like to touch me for 3 minutes?

this means person b will be doing something to person a for person b's benefit.
per above definitions from person a's perspective this is allowing, while from
person b's perspective this is taking. the same negotiation and consent process
happens just as before. person b might be very horny and might want to crazy
stuff. person a must realize that this is fine to express and that they don't
have to succumb to the shadow side, they can refuse and person b shall respect
that otherwise they are succumbing to the shadow side. once agreed, person b
does the activity for 3 minutes. again, since this was for person b's benefit,
person b thanks person a for the act.

round 3 and 4 is the same as round 1 and 2 but with the other person asking the
questions. the whole thing takes about 15 minutes and is worth every minute of
it.

this game might sound a little bit silly at first. but what makes it truly
remarkable is that it makes you stop for a minute and think. the question might
initially look simple enough but answering them often is quite hard. it's very
rare that we get a question on what we want. often i don't even know what sort
of touch i really want but this lets me think deep on what sort of thing would
fill me up now the best. and i can be very selfish in these thoughts, i don't
need to play an internal chess to ensure whatever i want is something compatible
with my partner. or that if i ask for this particular thing then my relationship
would spoil a bit. the flipside is true too: my partner can think of anything.
even if i don't really like the requested activity, i'm certainly willing to
give it 3 minutes, whatever it is. it can be a really freeing sensation once you
experience this game in a safe and supportive environment. you feel like you can
ask for anything and not be judged. you can say anything you want. i haven't
really tried it in a non-sexual environment so i don't know how well it works
there but i'd suspect it should hold up quite well there as well. you can see
sample sessions from such environment in betty's original videos and you can
see the participants happy with the game. betty's videos are well worth a watch.

in the original documentation of this game, betty mentions that this is a game
for 2 or more people. the "or more" version is quite intriguing to me. she
didn't really explain that part as far as i remember. i'm not entirely sure how
that would work. e.g. how could 3 people play this game? i think what you can do
is that rather than a single person asking the questions, 2 people ask the
questions together to the 3rd person. the third person then can come up with
activities that involve the first two people doing something to the third and
only proceed with the act if everyone agrees to it without succumbing to the
shadow sides. i guess that's how the "or more" works: each round a selected
person has to ask the group for something they can do together for the selected
person's benefit. it probably scales okay to 4 people but afterwards i'd imagine
it has way too much communication overhead. never tried this though so not sure
how transformative experience the group setting is yet.

the wheel of consent itself is a quite generic concept. it can apply in other
cases as well, not just the above game. e.g. you get invited to a party. do you
go or not? who benefits from you going to the party? it is an interesting
viewpoint to see our activities from. and things can get complicated: you only
benefit from the party if some other person also goes. and that other person
only benefits if you go. now you have these complex, conditional scenarios that
i can't really wrap my head around yet, so i'll not dig into this aspect. i'm
just trying to popularize this wheel of consent concept because looks like it's
a useful framework to work with.

if you ever try this game then let me know how it went and what your experiences
with it were.

!pubdate 2020-04-09
