why are there two glyphs for each english letter? why are there bunch of random
rules to decide which glyph to use in various situations? i honestly have no
idea. i suspect this might have been their history:

- people chisel into stone tablets. only long straight strokes are practical so
  people use uppercase. only uppercase letters exist at this point.
- people start writing with hands. cursive scripts are much easier on the hand
  so people start rounding the letters. eventually these become the lowercase
  letters.
- to make books look fancy, the first letter on each page is a huge ass old
  style uppercase letter.
- everyone wants to look fancy, everyone makes the first letter old style
  uppercase letter.
- now every sentence starts with an uppercase.
- now every name starts with an uppercase.
- world implodes due to this insanity (not happened yet but soon will).

this is nonsense. there is zero difference how you pronounce uppercase letters
versus lowercase letters therefore there should not be two separate cases. "oh
but it helps me find the sentence's start". boohoo. you will get used to it.
that is why punctuation exists. if uppercase letters would not exist and
somebody would want to invent it, people would laugh them off. say i invent a
middle case with completely different glyphs for each letter and the rule is to
use middle case at the end of sentences or names. does that sound ridiculous?
well, uppercase sounds just as ridiculous to me. most non-western languages do
not have this idiocracy.

why keep lowercase instead of uppercase? because lowercase is much easier on
eyes. it has larger variety in height. you see a word like "apple" and you can
see two spikes down before the middle and one spike up after the middle. chances
are you can still better guess the word after applying extreme blur levels
compared to its uppercase version where all letters have the same size.

and just imagine how significantly easier writing would become. no more effort
wasted about thinking or discussing the capitalization of titles, names, lists
and so on. less effort typing the uppercase letters. less computer logic to
compare words. if you want to make the world a better place then stop using
uppercase letters. please spread the word to make this revolution reach a
critical mass.
